coming to us live via technology from
the other side of the continent David
Pakman ladies and gentlemen it's so good
to be back with you
good to be with you too and I love your
facial hair as I was saying before I say
stick with it all the way maybe get some
kind of a cult leader guru thing
happening I'm actually five days from a
man bun that I the man buns the starter
kit for a cult leader right the man bun
is like I'm trying to get people to
listen to me more and take me more
seriously I'm spiritually I need like a
gimmick of some kind mmm I think you
gimmick is just being a nice guy hey
smart how about that that's rare oh nice
to a fault you're nice to a fault I
don't know I get emails from people who
are like you don't have to kowtow to the
dumb part of your audience like you
don't have to say stuff like listen I
want to apologize in advance for using a
slightly off-color phrase but I'm people
are like you just don't you just
shouldn't do that it's better for the
show for you just to say the thing I
love that you listen to those people I
think you should be yourself
and if you feel like you need to say
that I feel like you should just say
that it's nothing wrong with it
doesn't hurt my feelings when you say
things like that you know if I
understand what you're doing it's not
it's no big deal I feel like there's too
many opinions and it sucks for the
people with opinions and I think it's
one of the problems with what we do and
one of the reasons why people get so
angry at us so if you and I are having a
conversation and we maybe perhaps we
agree on something
but someone listening is like fuck that
this is what's wrong with that idea and
they want to say it but they can't
theirs and so the comments are almost
inherently angry because it's really so
much of it it's just people who want to
say something but there's no forum for
them they only can say it in the
comments they can't they feel like
they're in on this conversation that
they want to jump in on and interject
well I got an email today from someone
who said I love everything you've been
doing for the last six years but
yesterday you used the word anti-vaxxer
and I just that's it that was it when
you use that word that was it the david
pakman show and it's like I you can't
win with that you can
you know but it's the same thing it's
like they're angry right and this is the
way to get you to listen like oh you're
leaving wait a minute they're being
completely unreasonable
do you imagine if there was a show that
you enjoy and the guy said one thing
that you disagreed with it's especially
something like calling someone in
anti-vaxxer and you like fuck this it's
over my relationship with you is over
with that though that purity standard is
impossible to achieve especially
wouldn't your doing something like what
you and I do where you know we're
basically just talking with a very I
mean I'm sure you have like some bullet
points and things you want to cover but
your ad libbing all the time you're what
we call free balling all the time and
that's a it's a crazy standard to try to
hold to ask someone to not say anything
that you're gonna disagree with or I say
things I disagree with you know I'll
listen to it a half-hour later I'll
think about it a day later I'm like why
did I even say it like that
I don't I I have videos from seven years
ago where you know it's not that my like
my foundational values haven't changed
but I do look at it and I say you know
if I had known then what was going to
happen four months later I never would
have done it that particular way yeah
there's a well there's a lot of things
that happen in the news that force you
to sort of shift your opinions and go oh
that kind of stuff does happen oh I've
been naive I've had this perception of
you know whether it's the government or
the intelligence agencies is what of
being like beyond reproach and now I
find out oh alright now I gotta go and
revisit a lot of things that I was
saying we're nonsense
a lot of things that I was dismissing
openly now I gotta go oh well we like to
think that thing when it comes to like
governments and intelligence agencies
we'd like to think that there's some
level of whether it's government or
military there's some place that you
could reach where you're like a super
person where you're not going to make
any of the mistakes that we de tribute
to people based on greed or ego or
pettiness or or shortsightedness that
when you get to that point you're a
proven commodity and that you are you're
what we're looking for as a leader and
you have to be upheld
you have to uphold these very strict
standards at that spot and we assume
that there is an actual thing
like that and I think it's one of the
reasons why people get so frustrated at
Trump that's because he doesn't even try
to pretend he's one of those things he
he behaves the same way he used to well
one of the things that I was kind of in
a battle with in with my audience during
the primary was I would get emails from
people who would say the only person who
can beat Trump is Bernie for example and
then I would get people to people who'd
say the only person who could beat Trump
is tulsi gabbard everybody else is
straight-up a bad person and my message
was always listen we shouldn't deify any
of these people these are just people
you've met a lot of them they've been in
your studio that we're just talking
about people you're not going to agree
with them on every policy position
you're not going to agree with
everything they've done personally and
where I think it gets dicey is where
they start movements it's a cult of
personality really where a movement is
built around the person as an idea and
they can do no wrong and that's where
you're you there's no way to talk those
folks down about issues or about
practical decisions that we have to make
no I think you're 100% right and I also
think that the position itself the the
world has grown too large for the
position I feel like if we were if we
left from all parts of the land and all
parts of the world and found an empty
continent well obviously the United
States wasn't really empty but if you
found a place where weary settled and we
tried to restructure government from
scratch we would we would take that into
consideration now I think our founding
fathers they were just dealing with this
archetypal structure of one person that
sort of runs thing but in this case it
would be a person that we all agreed to
and it was a much better step moving
forward than Kings right but I think now
that we've kind of done that for a while
I realized well yeah that might be great
when it's a hundred thousand people or a
million people once it gets a 320
million people and complicated things
like international business and like
trade agreements and the environment and
nuclear power versus solar and wind and
like one person who's gonna be
responsible for all these insanely
important decisions that's
seems crazy and to blame one person when
any one thing goes wrong seems crazy as
well it's just I don't think we would do
it this way I think we'd have some sort
of a Council of wise people or something
along those lines you know what's
interesting to me about that I mean
we're like diving headfirst right into
you know a bunch of stuff here but
what's interesting about that is when
you think about who to vote or for
president and I know that you know we're
gonna get we'll get into this stuff I'm
sure you're not just voting for the
person you're voting for who are they
likely to have working for them what is
likely to happen in courts what is
likely to happen regulation wise and so
of course you want to think about who it
is that the person is but you also want
to think about who do they bring with
them and for me that's a lot of how I
see voting in November at this point
yeah most people have made that
concession and it's an interesting
concession right because it's not a
concession we had to make if it was
Tulsi Gabbard or Bernie Sanders or Amy
Klobuchar or P Buddha judge or you know
go down the line there's a lot of very
credible candidates that would have made
like interest like maybe this person
could be the next great president maybe
this person could be a great leader but
now we're in this position we're like oh
god okay so listen we're voting for the
cabinet okay like Biden is so he's
whether or not he's having moments that
are related to cognitive decline which
he could speculate or whether or not
this is just his reaction to the most
extreme amount of pressure he's ever
faced in his life and that does happen
people we know people lock up I would
imagine that a guy who's been in the
spotlight as long as he has for so long
probably would would be able to handle
stuff but I think running for president
is a whole different ball game I think
everything gets turned up by 10:00 and I
think it gets turned up in this society
that we're experiencing today it gets
turned up even more so because of social
media like no president other than Trump
has had really had to deal with this
kind of wave of social viral you know
feed back online with Twitter and
Facebook and YouTube and all the stuff
that we're experiencing right now they
Obama didn't have to deal with that
really in his first term maybe a little
bit in a second term but then Trump's
the first guy to tackle it head-on and
he's you know in a lot of ways he's
showing you what can come at you and I
think that when Biden is running through
these steps to try to become president
he's experiencing a wave of attention
and scrutiny that he's never experienced
before and that could also exacerbate
what a my doctor here I'm exam I'm
trying to figure out what's wrong with
his head but that could are you have you
taken a position on the Biden cognitive
stuff that something's wrong something's
wrong he was my friend he was fighting
I'd ask him to retire I mean if I'm
looking at that way I have friends that
I've seen their cognitive decline from
fighting I'm not saying that Biden is
the same so I don't really know him from
you know I don't know him over a long
period time I don't know him at all
personally but something's wrong the way
on any of your friends that are they
close to 80 any of them
no no because the kind of decline of
younger guys have been hit in the head
yeah when you get to 80 I have known
people that have had problems and it's
it's very unfortunate I don't think he's
there
where would I you know because he could
still talk to him like if that was just
a guy that you knew and he was like and
he said something like who we've all
been endowed by you know the thing
though that one famous beat you see you
wouldn't say oh Jesus what's going on
with Rey he would say oh yeah damn you
locked up he had a brain fart he had a
mental lapse which I've had doing
podcasts all the time it can happen but
in that moment in front of those people
to do it that way while he's running for
president and why he's had a few of
those before he could be dealing with
anxiety too there's probably a lot of
shit going on but I would be concerned
yeah I mean listen so I I don't have any
I don't my view is just based on actual
professionals that I've talked to and
people that have been in a room with him
because I've I'm not a professional and
I've not been in the room with Biden
so Andrew Yang was on with Sam Harris
recently I don't know if you saw and
this topic came up and Andrew yang
basically said
listen he's 78 years old if you compare
a video of Biden debating Paul Ryan in
2012 to Biden a month ago obviously it's
different and to some degree you that's
normal when someone's 78 years old yeah
but Andrew Yang's perspective was that
he didn't see anything that he would
call a dementia or cognitive decline
beyond that so that's like one it's just
one data point it doesn't tell us
anything definitively you know the other
thing is I've interviewed a few people
and I think you and I maybe have even
messaged about some of them neuroscience
your neurologists and mental health
professionals who were very concerned
about Trump like the oranges of an
investigation the where he is he seems
to sort of like lock up when his
shoulders sort of you know this thing
that he does were his shoulders kind of
a weird way I got video of that you know
he's I mean you think it's a
neurological thing I don't know that's
the thing so it could be neurological
mental health side effect of medication
there's a whole bunch of stuff it could
be could it also be an injury maybe yeah
maybe I mean if he's doing some with his
back or shoulder well it's weird because
he when it happens he has a verbal
mistake that he makes and it coincides
with this shoulder thing and then it's
almost like there's a half second gap
and then someone hits the reset button
and he'll get back on the teleprompter
or whatever it's weird there's like ten
or so examine to see this I need I need
to see this while I'm talking to you um
so Jamie's gonna search for one so what
would he search for um I think if you if
you went to like search.twitter.com and
just searched in videos the way you can
do and you put like Trump brain glitch
I'm guessing that some of these would uh
come up but the the the gist of what I
was getting to was some of these same
neurologists and mental health folks
when I asked them privately about Biden
and say to you are you seeing like the
same type of thing they all say no so
again it's like it's a different view
they're hardcore Hammond's that's I
don't know waiting long dance
yes had these moments were for sure
something doesn't look
right I agree totally great so why would
they say any differently they've gotta
be Democrats they've got to be hardcore
party loyalists III think that to assume
that absent any evidence is maybe unfair
yeah it is but I'm an unfair guy in some
some respects but here's my thought on
this right now so like what let's
imagine that Biden's having a real
problem right it's absolutely for real
I'm still voting for him over Trump
right I mean like so I I think last time
we talked you mentioned you were
pro-choice do I remember that right oh
yeah yeah
so I I felt like it's a it's a
controversial subject for a wreath there
bear yeah if Donald Trump gets to pick
the next Supreme Court justice it will
be someone who would love to overturn
roe v-- wade I mean there's not even a
chance he said it right this is will try
trumpet said that he is that he's
pro-life and that he picks up on that
would or it was just by virtue of
picking conservative there's there it's
it's actually it's there's two parts to
it one is Donald Trump was pro-choice
almost his entire life he came pro-life
when he was I think 68 because he met a
kid he liked and he imagined if that kid
wasn't born no I'm serious
I believe you it's just hilarious it's
crazy it's like an ABC after-school
special let's imagine that that's true
that he had an awakening at age 68 after
being pro-life his whole life yeah he
said he would pick justices that were
recommended to him by I forget which
conservative group you're only gonna get
you know Pro so-called the pro-life
justices from these groups mm-hmm on the
other hand Joe Biden will absolutely
pick a pro-choice justice so if I was
road choice like you are how do I
justify voting for the guy who's gonna
replace potentially Ruth Bader Ginsburg
with someone who would want roe v wade
overturned like I couldn't do it in good
conscience that's that's a good point
well I'm gonna get into it in a second
but Jamie just pulled up this video of
Trump and I'm gonna get a watch him have
this weird twitch for the first time
okay I'd hit me with it Jamie okay so
he's talking
I'm watching it is that it that would
have moved that he made oh this is
hilarious and silly trumped
neurologically malfunctions with a full
spasm no he's talking he just want like
this people do that that's silly maybe
so maybe that yeah I don't know I
couldn't hear that a better thing is
something that you showed me on your
show a better example when there was
real problems with him enunciate in
words and you know there was speculation
like was he falling so was he sick it
was it was he on a sedative was it was
something something going wrong it
almost seemed like his tongue wasn't
working correctly right yeah he was
wrestling with with a paralyzed tongue
respective matches mine but I think I
really for me it's like this stuff we're
not probably ever gonna really get an
answer to this and I don't know that
it's imperative to know the answers for
me to know who it is I'm gonna vote for
I guess is the point I'm trying to make
it's it's fascinating that pro-choice is
such a hard-line issue on left-wing
people in right wing people it's really
is that it's this line in the sand and
people are willing to so they're willing
to make concessions in favor of going in
that direction as because they recognize
the slippery slope of limiting people's
rights and the dangers of going in the
other direction you're not going to stop
abortions you're just gonna stop legal
abortions it's gonna be very dangerous
for the women it's gonna be it's it's
it's almost you know it's it's almost a
black and white issue in that regard but
what's not a black-and-white issue is
abortion itself right like there's a
time in the baby's life of the fetus
when it's inside the woman where
everyone gets uncomfortable whether it's
five months and four months and three
whatever it is for you where you're like
oh Jesus that's a baby now and to deny
that I think is is very odd that's a
weird thing because it's so
uncomfortable what it is is so
uncomfortable it bothers us so much that
we we just draw these lines and
we've got this opinion in a box and it's
this in this here we go we got this
bulletproof right-wing box and you can
never have an abortion okay what if your
daughter gets raped by some robber you
think that your daughter should have to
carry this man's child like if they know
about it immediately when it's a bundle
of cells really you think that like that
to me is insane right now if you knew
that it was conceivable that Trump would
put someone on the court who has that
view that'd be pretty scary wouldn't
what's scary in a lot of ways it's
scaring a lot of ways I think the more
control government has over your body
and the more it can dictate what you can
and can't do the scary things get and
then it gets scary in that this is a
subject that you know it's so polarizing
and if you move in the direction of
limiting it you run the risk
I always feel of shifting even like the
consciousness of the public be shifting
the way people approach things like this
accepting control that the government
has control of your body absolutely one
of them like the idea that they can come
and decide what you what you have to do
for the rest of your life now based on
maybe something that wasn't even your
choice that to me is crazy but that's
not the only thing that's going on
there's so many other issues it's one of
the reasons why picking a president and
picking a party's so great it's so crazy
that we let one person and then his
group that he gets with them shift the
consciousness of the public or shift the
direction of the country one way or the
other it's just it's a really weird
choice that we make in even making a
president and in doing it every four
years and having all these checks and
balances that you have to follow I mean
I think it's a it's a great system for
the time when they invented it is I mean
it's amazing how well it holds up from
1776 to today it's incredible it shows
you how amazingly wise they were but
just think about what we know now in
2020 about just the nature of
communication like what you and I are
doing I mean this is going to affect
millions of people in their opinions if
you
knew that today in 2020 and someone asks
you to make rules based on what was
going to be in place 300 years from now
you would be like I'm not qualified to
do that
it's really it's incredible how well
they wrote the Constitution in the Bill
of Rights back then I mean it's really
it's one of the most amazing things ever
if you really think about like all the
the different times that it's come up
and then you you think about how long
it's been that it was created I mean
it's really an astounding piece of human
work it is your argument though is
really one or having to update the
infrastructure that we bait right so
like yeah as you're saying if in order
to change the way that we govern the
country as you're saying you know one
person making all these decisions with
all of these different areas that
they're responsible for if you want to
change that you do have to change that
document that you just said I know it's
kind of crazy rights like we don't want
to update Windows 95 look I'm
comfortable with it I know where the
icons are but Windows 10 is like hey you
know come come make the switch we've got
a better system we figured it out better
we don't have a Windows 10 of government
you know we're still working with 95 we
you know we still have the older
versions of Apple's software we don't
have OSX 10 whatever the latest version
of it is we are in this weird place
where you know we we have this system
that's better than anything that we
could see anywhere else but yet
it really it doesn't necessarily work
perfectly for the complicated issues
that exist in managing just the 330
million people and all their problems
what is your sense of I mean is there
like is there a particular issue where
when you think of Trump and Biden you're
on the Trump side in terms of the
political position hmm like what
political positions see one of my
opinions on political positions
especially like they're really scary
ones right like the possibility of war
the environment things along those lines
I I wish I was more informed I wish I
knew exactly you know like
when there's some negotiations in these
trade war deals with China for instance
like I wish I understood that better I
wish I really knew what was at stake and
what China is actually trying to do and
whether or not like in particular like
what do you think about China China in
the military and their their engagement
with the companies the reason why was I
never understood whether we're trying to
keep Huawei out I was like why they keep
that doesn't make any sense to me like
shouldn't they show that they've done
something bad and but it's a company
that they feel is inexorably connected
to the Chinese government so that's like
negotiating with them and that kind of
like for me to say that I think that
this person is doing a better job or I
like the way Biden would handle it
better Lee do I really know what the
fuck I'm talking about I don't you know
I really don't and that's the case with
a lot of issues the social issues there
that's what I was gonna say I feel like
there's low-hanging fruit we're just
from listening to you it's like you know
when when you said that you were mostly
sort of a Bernie guy that in the primary
you you seem to I don't want to put
words in your mouth but that Bernie
would be your primary the person in the
primary that you would lean towards her
support if you pick environment just for
one example
Bernie's big on green new deal and we
could debate how practical is it is it
just a framework is it something that
could literally be made law or whatever
the case Trump thinks climate change was
a hoax created by China
whereas Biden supports the green new
deal as a framework it's like if you're
coming from if we start with Bernie you
can see that there's a grand canyon
sized gap between the two options and so
that's where I'm kind of interested in
because you know I get out you know I'm
sure I don't know if you see them or not
but there's all these articles about Joe
Rogan is a left-right center whatever
you and I have spoken enough now where
you've made it clear that your actual
positions on social issues environment
they're pretty laughs than yourself but
the only is really who aligns with me
okay Biden is not Bernie for sure but
it's it's a it's closer and so that's
where I'm interested in where there's
really anything you can identify where
you're like I just don't agree with
Biden on this um well when you talk
about Bernie and why I was interested in
Bernie what
Berni represented to me was someone who
wanted change at out like a societal
level wanted to help people in a way
that wasn't gonna make anybody any money
it wasn't something where he was clearly
doing this because the special interest
groups it put him in a position think
this would ultimately be more profitable
when he's talking about things like
eliminating student loans a student and
making school Liam
free for everyone when you say that I go
first of all that's not making anybody
any money right that's one of those
things you're only doing because you
think it would be better for humans
better for our culture better for our
our civilization I'm all for that those
those are the things eliminating these
catastrophic health care bills that
people get when they get sick and they
go bankrupt that to me is crazy that we
have this community that's what's
supposed to be right the United States
is supposed to be like almost like a
giant team and we would let others just
by simple misfortune we would let their
life completely fall apart because they
got injured and they come up with this
bill that literally changes the whole
course of their life if you're a person
who makes fifty thousand dollars a year
and you know you're doing fine and then
all sudden a catastrophic injury comes
along and you get hit with a bill a
medical bill that's in the hundreds of
thousands of dollars you're fucked
like you're your life you don't have
enough time to make that up unless you
do something significantly different in
terms of earning more money so you're
stuck you're in a bad set that's to me
crazy and that doesn't make any sense
like as a person who values community as
a person who values like we can help and
it makes everybody feel good if you can
help someone who came upon some bad
fortune they feel better you feel
protected and loved you feel better for
being able to use your you know your
privilege or your fortune to help these
people that's what we need more of that
is what stood out for me about Bernie
Sanders now the argument against that is
the pro-business argument right the
pro-business argument is the stronger
the businesses the the better business
does here's a trickle-down effect and
the whole society will rise
because the economy is stronger and and
you know yeah there's gonna be some
ruthless capitalism going on but
ultimately it benefits everybody and
that's I don't think you have to have
one or the other there I mean III don't
think that this is these are mutually
exclusive that you can't you can have
capitalism but you could also have
compassion and we could we could work
together as a community and and and try
to take all these problems that we have
that that are really clear right like
these inner cities that never get any
better they never show any improvement
unless they get gentrified everything
stays fucked right why is that that's
not an unsurmountable problem like if we
can fly across the planet and try to fix
countries that we've blown up in war why
can't we try to fix the inner cities
that our kids go to school in like that
doesn't make any sense to me that people
are forced to live in that's why I was
interested in Bernie Sanders that's what
he means to me that's care example is an
interesting one because it really comes
down to what is the main point of the
health care apparatus right if the main
point is to get people as healthy as
possible so that they can live the
longest most fulfilling lives that they
want or are able to that gets you one
set of policies if the perspective is
health care is just an industry like any
other where the participants just are
there to make money that's a totally
different policy prescription and
regulatory infrastructure it's like it's
night and day yeah it really is it
really is night and day and it's it's
one of those things that I think people
are probably going to be more interested
in hearing about now after this pandemic
they realized hey through no fault of
your own you could be broke through no
fault of your own you can lose your
business through no fault of your own so
all these ideas that like I know people
in a pretty right-wing that would give
me a hard time about call me a socialist
and a commie because a million to Bernie
Sanders a lot of those very same people
are now wanting to get that stimulus
check a lot of those very same people
now understanding why I supported Andrew
yang and his concept of universal basic
income because
his concept is based on his
understanding of technology and his
knowledge of AI and the potential
possibility to just take millions of
people out of the market out of the
workplace like that almost like this
like a virus of technology that removes
diseases excuse me
removes jobs instead of removes your
health and I think that more people
probably would be better off if we
shifted our ideas about what socialism
means and what a democratic socialism
means I think that the word is so toxic
maybe we should just call its community
support you know that we should we
should think of these really key things
like student loans and then we both
agree about this it is insane to start
your life at 21 years 22 years old just
getting out of school with hundreds of
thousands of dollars of debt that's
insane and if you go on to get a PhD ah
it keeps going it keeps going in you get
to this point where you're you're just
you have this weight over you everywhere
you go there's this big-ass wait and
you're carrying it around and that
carrot you're carrying around this debt
that even if you go bankrupt you have to
pay how did that happen how our business
is able to pollute the environment make
terrible mistakes go under go bankrupt
and they're absolved of their debt but a
kid who wanted to learn something goes
to school and winds up you know you're
22 you're not even a fully formed human
yet and you're in debt you're fucked
you're starting out of the gate crazy
crazy behind the line well you're
completely right of course about the
toxic nature of the word socialism fact
that for a second I think that that hurt
Bernie in 2015 I was saying Bernie may
well have been a socialist in the 1970s
he may still be one but he's really
running on on social democracy which is
what they have in Northern Europe it's a
type of capitalism and this is what I
think Andrew yang actually did well I I
don't know if it was like people-centred
capitalism that he called what he was
doing or or what phrase he used but I do
think in my post mortems about what
happened with Bernie because it wasn't
by a little bit at Bernie Lost I mean
even before he dropped out he was down
like 1.8 or 2 million votes to Joe Biden
like this this was really not close I do
think that the continued use of the that
word socialism was not helpful and I
know people will hear me say this and
they'll say David either way they were
gonna call him a socialist what
difference does it make if he embraces
the term or says it's not the right term
or whatever sure that that applies to
some people but I fail to see what the
advantage was to using a term that
didn't really describe what his campaign
was he was he's talking about capitalism
where you say like you're pointing out
we can't let people drop too low we need
to ensure some basic level things happen
that aren't people's fault it's not just
about you're gonna do as well as you
want to do there are circumstances
people are born into injuries pandemics
all this stuff yes so I I do think that
whatever your opinion is about socialism
it's a quote unquote
there was really no advantage to Bernie
Sanders from using or at least to some
degree allowing that term to continue
being used well he wanted to redefine it
and when he came onto my show he
actually did try to define it and just
described the difference between the
concept of socialism which a lot of
people connect to communism and what he
calls
democratic socialism you know and what
he was showing a more tamed down version
of this this concept that you know a lot
of like real young left he's like my
friend my friend Bridget was on the
podcast the other day Bridget fantasy
she's a hilarious writer very funny
comedian and she was talking about how
she found some stuff that she wrote when
she was in her early 20s and she read it
and she's she's more Center today I
would say maybe he left on many issues
politically socially rather but she was
like a Oh see she said she said she's
reading this stuff and she was like like
a radical when she was young and I think
that happens to people you do I'm sure
Bernie was probably a full-on socialist
at one point in his life but like what
did that mean back then versus what does
it mean now and even the term socialist
like the term like when you when you
look at the term conservative
the term socialist you're talking about
a spectrum you're not talking about a
one or a zero it's not an it's not you
can't have a it no one has the same
number factor of conservativism there's
a lot of people that are conservative
that that you know they're very liberal
on a lot of social issues but yet they
still vote red and I think there's a lot
of people that consider themselves like
a socialist but what it what does that
at what level and if you're Pro fire
department I think you can't you you
embrace some socialist values right if
you're Pro a lot of the services that we
use that are a part of your tax dollars
like we're combining our money so that
what the world is better for all of us
it's not just a dog-eat-dog fight we
recognize value and community and
society and a civilization where we all
work together we just don't want to work
together too much we don't want people
leeching off of it and I'm on that side
as well because I know that although
there are mountain we're seeing these
more than we've ever seen in our life
that multiple circumstances beyond your
comprehension totally out of your
control that fucks up your life but yet
we also see people who are lazy and who
keep fucking up their life and you keep
enabling them and helping them it
doesn't help anybody either both those
things are true it does just because you
agree with one thing that we need to
help each other doesn't mean you deny
the fact that there's a real problem
psychologically to giving people free
money and to giving people free room
born and taking away incentive for them
to survive there's something for
whatever reason that a lot of us need
this sort of like inner drive this
knowledge that you you're responsible
for your own destiny and you have to go
out there and you have to put in the
work you have to get out of bed when the
alarm goes off you have to do the things
you're supposed to do and there's people
that don't do that and yet they still
want to be rewarded they still want
money they still want their check they
still they still want the thing they
feel society or government owes them
that's not good either see both of those
things are not good it's not good to let
people who are sick rot and and and and
and live their life in a compromised
position because they don't have enough
money for the medical care that's sick
too it's not it's not a good person it's
not a good Society
a good model to have people starve if
that's not good if there's money in food
and we could distribute it more evenly
especially the people that are
unfortunate but it's also not good to
let people just camp out on the sidewalk
where you can't walk through it
Los Angeles is filled with tents now
especially now because of all this
craziness and the pandemic it's gotten
way worse there's areas where you can't
go anywhere you literally can't walk
under under passes there are these
campgrounds like that's not good either
you know and now we're dealing with
mental health problems I'm sure and I
mean there's a lot so ok you mentioned
the areas where even right-wingers tend
to be ok with sort of like socializing
certain services so fire departments an
easy one that's the road those are those
are all really easy but I think that
there's some more pernicious ones that
the right is less eager to own like for
example it's all about free market
capitalism or profits make a business
build up the business etc even when that
business is built on law enforcement
that's socialized to protect your
office's law infrastructure that you
count on to protect your intellectual
property it says so put that aside for a
second but then the there ok socializing
the clean up or the fixing in many cases
so with drilling and fracking companies
for example right great examples
capitalism for the profits look at me
capitalist I figured out how to do this
drilling how to how to extract this
energy from the earth I bought the land
I bought the equipment I'm hiring
employees look at me you know pulling
myself up I'm up by the bootstraps
something goes wrong people downwind you
know get sick whatever now they are
going to say let's socialize that clean
up cost though you're right because you
know we should do this through taxation
let's make sure that we're cleaning this
up at the state level we want
state-funded
we want state funds to get this all
cleaned up so that is an area of
hypocrisy that's more difficult than
just like we mostly all agree the fire
department should be socialized a few
people will say no if you call and
there's not really a fire you should owe
money or so that's like a tiny
percentage it's an easy one the the the
ones I'm talking about her a little bit
tougher and you're gonna get a lot more
pushback I think if you were
focus on those well I think you've got a
really good point with the environmental
cleanup like something like the BP oil
spill that's a really good point and
that's a weird one it's like you don't
want a so it's almost like it's such a
catastrophic event you don't want to
leave it in the hands of someone who is
so they I mean they fucked up in the
first place to make this happen I don't
trust them I don't trust the way they do
business I mean they they maybe it's
just something that happens when you
drill under the ocean and you pull out
occasionally things go wrong but I don't
trust them to fix that I want to have
some sort of environmental cleanup crew
that's in place and maybe give them the
bill I mean I don't know what did it
cost how much did it cost BP to to have
that and isn't it still leaking hasn't
it been proven that that it's still
polluting the ocean I don't know over
the last year I I honestly don't know
what of when it's coming out of the
ground
oh yeah it's crazy like the world's
ending like it's a high-pressure it's
just the height it's just open for days
right I mean ranks I don't even remember
how long it was just open them but
that's the point if you don't so this is
where it starts to get tricky because it
sounds like you might trust them to
monetize it
but then if it gets messed up hey we
don't we shouldn't trust them to clean
it up someone else should do it which
maybe I agree with in you're right we
should give him the bill but that's the
role of regulation to begin with if they
were better supervised dwee could have
prevented this from the start I mean
with the BP oil spill I'm going back
like 10 years now but there was some
$500,000 valve I believe that was not
required I'm going from memory so I hope
I'm getting this 90% right there was
some regulation that was removed where
they were no longer required to have
this five hundred thousand dollar safety
on these rigs which would have prevented
it and obviously the five hundred grand
they didn't want to spend upfront but it
would have been way cheaper than what
ultimately happened mmm Jesus you know
when I see those rigs outside like
there's a place that I'd love to go to
in Santa Barbara that they have these
offshore little oil rigs I always look
at them like that one day in the future
we're gonna look back and go why the
fuck did we ever let them put those
there these that is so crazy
any
their business like first of all that's
not even our land right no one even owns
that it's like if you're an oil company
and you're in Texas you have to have
either a lease on the land or you have
to have rights to the land has to be
yours in order to dig into the ground
and get oil but out there in the ocean
you just kind of do it in on public area
you're doing it in the world I mean once
you get a certain amount of miles I
forget how many miles it is offshore
it's international waters right so you
just we're making agreements we're
letting these companies go into the
ground and we're not profiting from it
at all all the money goes to them and
they're sucking it out of the ocean and
at any moment they could go wrong with
goobie the explosion and that the
beaches are ruined for the rest of your
generation yeah I couldn't agree with
you more there I don't know if it's
going to be like in 50 years or 200
years or you know however however many
years at some point we're going to look
back and there will be you know the
books will say we used to pull this the
out of the ground and then refine it and
then burn it and then they were just
people would say you guys did why how
did that work how did you even get away
with it
do you drive an electric car i I don't
currently sell a bitch plan to get what
I have implants okay and the next bar
will be electric yeah once you get one
other cars feel stupid I mean I really
not just stupid because the
environmental risk like I have a Tesla
Model S it's the craziest thing I've
ever driven it literally doesn't make
sense they're so fast it's it's like
it's violating physics it's so strange
it's like you see this enormous screen
where the navigation is on you're like
why did anybody ever have like a little
screen when you can have one of these
things you know where you can see it's
like having a map open in front of you
they're crying help do you own what if
you do a long trip I don't bring it on a
long trip okay you are you are you
planning ahead of time where you're
stopping to charge it I have friends
that have driven many many you know like
across the country even with Tesla's and
they you know there's a little
supercharger map that's built in to the
software
it's amazing you can't do it but I don't
want to wait around in some town for 20
minutes while my car charges to 80% and
look around for weirdos like what if
some shit's going down man with
what if you're in you know if you have
like 14 miles left on your charge and
also a building explodes half a block
away like you got to get out of there I
like I like to be able to if I'm if I'm
taking a road trip and I'm going across
the country I want options maybe if they
have like a little engine they could get
you by let's just a little tank of gas a
little engine to get you by in case you
run out of batteries they're gonna I
guess it's gonna be solar eventually you
could also just always not go below 50%
right and then you don't know if the
shit hits the fan you've got 50% at
least yeah yeah you could do that yeah
you could do that but that would be
annoying you know you drive you know the
50 percents like 150 miles if you're on
a long trip you go to 150 miles and pull
over and then you gotta wait there for
whatever amount of time they're getting
better at it though they're getting
faster but the point is like it's such a
clear leap in the evolution of
Technology that once you drive one of
those you like oh it's game over like he
told me that when Elon was here he told
me that and I was like oh you're just
saying that because it's your product
and we were joking around about it but
then when I drove one I'm like oh okay
yeah I mean it's like it doesn't even
make sense there's so much better than
regular cars because it's instant
acceleration there's no no gears it's
one gear it's instant torque and it also
is so quietly like oh I don't I can
think I just drive around this thing and
think in total babies like Wyatt is
really appealing to me and I'm looking
I'm in a few in a few weeks I think
right now the model threes are like 10
weeks out so I'm probably gonna put in
an order and you know four or five weeks
so I get it right right when I need it
but as far as the Elon Musk's Tesla
stuff so I was I bought Tesla stock a
long time ago years years ago I don't
remember exactly when and obviously it
did really well for a really long time
and I don't remember when it was if it
was a year and a half ago or two years
ago but when Elon smoked pot on your
show and the shit hit the fan I panic
sold half my stock no and and the thing
is I always say I don't know anything
about stocks I invest in mutual funds
you just let it ride long-term reinvest
the dividends don't think about it but I
have like five or six stocks that I
actually chose to buy and this is
exactly why I don't invest in stocks
because I
convinced that after that incident
horrible things were going to happen and
I was like I'm selling a hat and
obviously I regret having done that at
this point do you smile do you smoke pot
Dave I don't I don't smoke anything I
just thinks been inhaling any smoke
I just don't think is good and so it's
nothing I've not done it well there's
definitely better ways to do it then
inhaling smoke but inhaling smoke is
very effective but uh you know eating
sugar it's not good either you know I'm
sure you'll do that right
I certainly keep worrying that much
about what would happen in the market I
get it if you don't smoke pot if you
smoke pot you're like oh he's just relax
everybody because it seems like a drug
what is clear it wasn't the smoking pot
and the reaction to it was it was what
happened with I think it was around the
same time where he said I might have
found someone to take the company
private
yeah and SEC got involved and I just
panicked and I was like I'll keep him up
so much I'll just sell half so it's not
the end of the world I'm hedging my bets
here
he has two qualities that would never
bet against and the first one is an
insane work ethic his work ethic is
insane it's insane I mean that guy will
work 16 hours a day seven days a week he
just keeps going he was when he was
trying to get the model 3 production out
he was sleeping on the floor of the
factory I mean he's a maniac and he's
weirdly intelligent like weirdly some
like when I'm talking to him I feel like
I'm talking to someone in the future
like this is what you know if I if I had
to go back in time and have dinner with
a Neanderthal you know I feel like it'd
be real similar to when I sit down and
hang out with Elon how he feels because
like I think he's like another another
level of human being I think that that
that is a natural course of progression
for evolution that we are going to
eventually find people that are where
they're they're getting smarter they're
gonna get its we're not going to stay in
a static state forever right just like
we didn't stay as in Australia Pittacus
we became human beings over you know
natural selection and evolution and all
that good stuff that's going to keep
going and if it's gonna keep going
you're
especially when it's integrated with
this insane access to technology that
kids have today and insane access to
information you're gonna have smarter
people it's gonna be a different thing
in there you know maybe they're gonna I
mean he's a he's a person he's a human
being so he does make mistakes just like
human beings make like when he called
that guy a pedo guy and that kind of
shit but when it comes to his ability to
allocate resources and do things and get
things done like that he's so smart they
just let him drill tunnels under LA
they're like okay go ahead like how many
people would be able to go to the you
know the city of Los Angeles and go I've
got an idea I want to put a tunnel go
all the way to Vegas this guy's on coke
get him out of here
but with Elon they let him try it's I
think he's a really important person for
our culture really important like
probably one of the most important
people where are you on I mean I guess
at some point coronavirus is a topic
where are you on what's going on with
him reopening the factory and saying
arrest me and I mean I like I've been
following it to some degree it's really
complicated right it's like who should
be able to decide when you can or can't
go back to work it's not it's not
straightforward it's not cut and dry
because if you say the people should be
allowed to make their own decision you
run into the very real possibility that
especially if you have to go to work at
that factory and you can't not work and
you do get sick and you do go home and
you do spread it to your family a loved
one could die that's that's real on the
other hand the government doesn't really
seem to have any sort of straightforward
plan as to how people can economically
bounce back from this they I mean there
was one of the weirdest quotes I think
it was Trump that said this was talking
about businesses and restaurants that
they'll be open maybe not with the same
owners but they'll open again did you
did you see that quote no I don't I
don't I didn't see that but it's like
what does that really mean does that
just mean like a different business will
be created that's exactly what it means
it means that he's just being pragmatic
and maybe cold whoever made that quote
that is probably how it's going to go
down is it
Trump says restaurants to make comeback
just maybe with new owners yeah I mean
that don't that does not make me feel
good Ben if I'm a restaurant owner you
know and there's a few restaurants that
I'm always shouting out on the podcast
that like are owned by friends of mine
that are these businesses are hurting so
bad they're they've went like that to no
customers or a very small percentage of
customers who were to take out when they
were you know they had dine in every
night and they have these bills and they
had their business set up in a way that
you know you have to make X amount of
money in order to stay open and they
were successful and they're doing well
and one of the toughest businesses to be
successful in and then all sudden the
rug gets pulled out so what's the
solution should people just be able to
go to restaurants and everybody works
there as a waiter or a cook or they just
maybe get sick and then more people die
boy that doesn't sound good to anybody
either so what is the solution I don't
know but I don't think that in our
particular case I don't think our
governor has the answers one of the
things he's been criticized for is he's
decided to open up production for
television and films but not churches
you know there's another thing they've
done that's really nutso my friend Adam
curry turned me on to they closed
Alcoholics Anonymous meetings but liquor
stores were an essential business that
yes that's not good government it's not
good thinking this this there's so many
things where they put into place these
lists of what's approved and not
approved and I don't I just don't think
that it's an intersting the information
is constantly changing and I think that
they're they're going off this old
information they haven't made
adjustments and then on top of it I
don't think they're qualified to I don't
think they're qualified just like we're
talking about a president like one
person who's involved in the economy and
environment all these different things I
don't think one governor can really be
smart enough to know a what kind of
impacts gonna have economically to close
all these businesses down and B which
ones get to open up and what is
essential and why and it's just it's
very frustrating for all involved and it
highlights one of the reasons why you
know the way we do government is tight
its you know it's not perfect
it's it's not it's definitely better
than a lot of ways a lot of places in
the world but it stills there's a lot of
holes in it yeah I share your
frustration with constantly changing
messages you know what is essential in
one state versus in another state the
issue of churches is a big one I mean on
on the other hand the the in
Massachusetts churches were included in
the first phase of reopening and a lot
of public health officials say that
doesn't make any sense and the suspicion
is that it's there because of a lot of
pressure and that it probably should
have been you know in phase two or maybe
even phase three but I think it's hard
to really talk about the state by state
without acknowledging the disastrous
response from the federal government and
I don't know where you stand on you may
totally disagree with me on that and I
think that there's a lot of straw men
that are being put in place to argue
that Trump handled that beautifully use
his term but I think if you start with
the idea of the coordinated federal
response we could have had a lot of
these other issues that we're having now
just wouldn't be issues and I'm glad to
get into it more if you want I don't
know if you've talked about that a lot
yeah I think it'd be really interesting
to talk about this because what do you
think they could have done differently
look what do you think the government
should have done differently the federal
government got it so here here's their
the narrative has been a lot of two
sides that are arguing people who just
vaguely say Trump failed he didn't do
enough and he was slow without like
really giving specifics which I will
give and then on the other hand you've
got a lot of people who are just
reflexively defending hey he shut down
travel from China really early and he
took it seriously and we've done the
most tests which is a whole other fiasco
dick talking point that we can get into
but for the most part I think that the
the critiques and the praise is just not
tied to real dates so in January we had
our first case January 20th I think it
was and South Korea had their first case
January 20th
we then often skip over February so a
lot of people will defend Trump by
saying you're not gonna shut down a
country when you've got one case and I
totally agree you're not gonna
down a country over one case we're not
gonna shut down a country over 15 cases
there was this point where we had 15 and
Trump said we've got 15 and soon it's
gonna be zero I don't think that it was
logical at that point to say shut it all
down but just to like pick a date and
then we can work around it March 5 okay
March 5th China had 80,000 cases so we
already had proof that like this was
this was gonna be big Italy had 4,000
cases so this is March 5 so we already
had proof that it'll travel really far
and it'll get bad far from China and we
had 221 cases on March 5 it would be
very reasonable on March 5th or Trump
say this is a problem FDR like delivery
I'd know hard to imagine Trump doing
that but we've got to work together this
is gonna be difficult we're gonna do a
30-day I need all 50 governors to help
me on this let's do 30 days of stay at
home he probably would have then on
April 5th have had to ask for another 30
so we would have done like 60 days March
5 to May 5 and where would we be right
now we'd be in really really good shape
so it's really easy to just say dude
you're not gonna shut down a country
with five cases I do I agree but we had
the information on March 5th March 10th
March well right at any one of these
points if we did a real shutdown we'd be
in such good shape first of all I think
that the support for a shutdown that
early would been almost zero I think you
would have a really hard time convincing
people that this was going to be that
big of a deal and that there wouldn't be
something they could do to stop I think
a lot of this is Monday morning
quarterbacking right we're looking at
what happened
factually like we're looking at it in
the past this is when we're there was
this amount of cases when it was
happening live there was a lot of
confusion first of all the World Health
Organization as recently as January was
saying that according to China this is
what they wrote on our Twitter a tweet
you it's not it doesn't get transmitted
from person to person so this is in
January right in March they were saying
you don't need a mask
this is
there's been a lot of confusion it's not
like there was like real straightforward
clear advice it's hard for us it's so
easy for us to sit back here we are in
late May and say oh he should have done
this and if he'd done that everything
would have been great
the support for shutting down the whole
country for 30 days at the beginning of
March was zero I don't think anybody
would have noticed that so no question
and I also I think I do think we want to
be careful though if we if we write any
retrospective analysis office Monday
morning quarterbacking it's all then
it's not even worth discussing right
because we could just say throw it out
it's Monday morning quarterbacking I
mean oh you're right you're right yeah
you know it's it's definitely of look it
clearly wasn't perfect so there's always
going to be room for critique but like
what the idea that we could have shut
everything down boy
that is that was such a hard sell
remember when Cuomo was saying that
they're not going to shut down New York
it would be too hard on de Blasio sure I
mean that they're they're not you know
they're Democrats and from some
Republican I don't care about that I
mean certainly there there's no doubt
that Cuomo and de Blasio are deserving
of some blame here as well in one other
example there was a period we'd have to
look at kovat tracking org to get the
exact numbers but there was a period in
either late March or early April where
South Korea remember South Korea had
their first case the same day we did we
then out within like six or eight hours
it might have been January 1920 or vice
versa but there was a point in late
March or early April where South Korea
had as many positive tests in a day as
we did pests total hmm so this is really
important to understand that the
discrepancy here they there was a day
where we like a state eight hundred
people in the United States and they did
so many tests that they had 800 positive
cases and so the the the slow testing
response is a disaster and the proof is
you know we can say it's Monday morning
quarterbacking but South Korea got it
right
Taiwan got it right in terms of places
in Europe Greece did really well New
Zealand did really well so we may be
looking at it retrospectively but there
were examples of countries that were on
the ball with testing and it made a huge
difference
yeah I did there's no doubt about that
and David maybe you would know the
answer to this wasn't there there was
some sort of a pandemic department that
was people were moved out of that
department and it sort of was absorbed
yes so there's so there's video of this
it's so funny because Trump was asked
about this at a press briefing a couple
months ago this is when Anthony foul she
was still allowed in public and when the
question when the question was asked why
did you shut down the pandemic response
team Trump turned the videos out there
Trump turned and said I don't know
anything anta Tony do you know anything
about that there's video of from 2018
bragging about shutting that down so my
god get back to our cognitive decline
thing is it possible Trump literally had
no memory of that when he was asked
about it a couple months ago maybe yes
there is here's why here's why yeah my
brain my memories going to shit and I
think one of the reason why my memories
going to shit as I do too many things I
have too many podcasts going there's too
many subjects I'm researching too many
different topics for future guests and I
really feel like you can only have so
much data in your head I really you know
what that um with Dunbar's number is
yeah it's it's related to it's some
number of items right that you could
simultaneous humans you can have some
sort of one by name relationship
recognize their face people that you
know are going to be in your circle of
humans you interact with Dunbar's number
and it's somewhere around 150 and they
think it's based on how we evolved in
these small tribes and we you know we've
evolved to know the people that are
around us and that's all the database
you needed you know you didn't need a
full terabyte for people's names and
addresses you just needed a hundred and
fifty of them I think that's the case
with everything and I think when you see
a guy like Trump and he's got fucking
towers all over the place with his name
on it and how many different businesses
is he juggling and all these different
deals going on and he's cheating at golf
and all this different crazy shit I mean
there's so much data and then on Tony's
he's supposedly not doing it like as far
as they've told us he hasn't been
involved in his businesses for three and
a half years your guys must have
something to do with it there's I
believe that like this has been some
the people say to me like hey I'd love
you to get involved in this business and
I would say I don't have at any time
there well you wouldn't need the time
well it doesn't matter I would need the
time because I'd have to think about it
if I give you money now I have to think
I go what's that money what's happening
over there that's one more thing it's
one more unit of the mental bandwidth
that you have this fucking guy's taxed
out he's taxed out with just the
arguments that he's getting with the
press just think about how much that's
how much real estate that's taking up in
his head right and then you think about
the disease you thinking about
restarting the economy you think about
he very well might not remember bragging
about disbanding the pandemic team
it's very okay well maybe he doesn't to
your question there was this pandemic
response team he disbanded it in 2018
and he sort of bragged that hey you know
we're not gonna do stuff where we don't
need these people we just thought
they're not really doing much so we just
we don't really need them so he did do
that whoops is this thing that this
thing about the press though you know
and he's busy with between the press and
the virus and reopening and all this
different stuff I don't know if you saw
the reports that he often gets into what
we would call work like at noon or later
after watching like five or even more
hours of TV and tweeting it doesn't
strike me that he's that busy with
actual work I think he is and he isn't I
think he it's still taking up bandwidth
in his head but look it is so American
that he does that you know I'm saying I
mean not the best way possible but it's
so we're so comical in so many ways that
our president
he's eating junk food and watching TV
and tweeting angry tweeting of people
always watching Fox News it's so so okay
here's the point I want to make about
that okay one of the things that scares
me about the way that this president is
sometimes covered by sometimes it's
people who call themselves centrist or
sometimes it's people who say I'm just
I'm just reporting facts and not giving
an opinion or whatever one of the things
that really scares me is that this is
being treated like a normal presidency
when as you're pointing out it's really
not a normal presidency and the analogy
that I would sort of apply to it would
like imagine that you're doing UFC
commentary and I'm really I'm going I
dislike me going out on a limb because
this is not my area of expertise but
let's see if the analogy will work
imagine that one of the fighters comes
in and he at one point tries to light
his opponent on fire and you as a
commentator say this is an unusual
strategy that's very aggressive you're
treating it like it's within the realm
of normality this is a destruction of
the system right like what if it's not
an aggressive strategy this is crazy
right that's incorrect now me it scares
me because I see you know so I like to
use the term enlightened centrist and
it's a little bit pejorative but it's
someone who believes themselves to be
above the fray of the of the bias of the
left/right stuff mm-hmm
where they'll say you know listen yeah
Trump kind of has a different way of
talking about politics but I think he's
pretty good on trade it's like what are
you talking about and that really scares
me because there's like a normalization
going on that's that's crazy well
there's also a thing that we desire as
humans that's for our leaders to exhibit
virtue and and and dignity there's
there's like a thing we expect them to
be a statesman or a state's woman right
you expect them to like Tulsi gabbard's
an excellent example that to me of
someone who who speaks like someone that
I would appreciate addressing the nation
in some sort of a disastrous state like
if something was going wrong I would
want someone who speaks the way she
speaks talking about it you know there's
there's a certain Cuomo has it there's a
certain characteristic that you would
want from someone who is in a position
of leadership like I get a certain
amount of calm out of listening to him
break down the current situations and
what they're doing to remedy and
mitigate all the problems in New York
and when you think about it New York got
hit harder than anywhere on the point
excuse me anywhere I guess anywhere on
the planet right it turns to a city I
mean yeah I think so yeah so at this
point it's anywhere on the planet I mean
he's done a remarkable job of exhibiting
all the characteristics whether or not
you think his decisions were correct or
not because there's some real arguments
especially with the early days of
letting
old people go back to nursing homes when
they had tested and that's obviously
horrible but the way he communicates he
communicates like a guy that you would
feel comfortable he's gonna make good
decisions that got that he seems like a
president yeah and I think that this is
why you know a lot of mistakes have been
made during this and a lot of it came
from like your pointing out we had
incomplete information right masks are
good then they don't work it's
transmitted through droplet versus how
much is happening via surfaces and it's
you know dangerous for this group versus
if a lot of mistakes were made because
of lack of information but not everybody
was saying stuff like 15 cases will soon
be 0 anybody who wants a test can get a
test it'll wash through by April and
we're not gonna have cases by the that
stuff that that's has a very particular
effect on people who basically want a
license to go out and act however they
want to act regardless of what the facts
are and that's why it's been so
dangerous to see that stuff well it also
is dangerous because people dismiss some
of the things that he said when he was
talking about like using a UV inside the
body as a disinfectant or using Lysol as
a clay maybe a cleaning he was saying
one of the problems that came out of
this I don't know if you're aware of
this there was a publicly traded biotech
company that had a concept for UV light
that would go in through when someone
was intubated you would go in through
the same tube and they would use that UV
light and it would kill the virus from
inside that is something that UV light
actually does work to kill bacteria and
viruses in fact I at my house I have a
cellphone cleaner you put it in there
you close it and it uses UV light to
kill all those things I mean this is
something that they've they've had
forever in SteriPEN
a SteriPEN is something that backpackers
and hikers use you can take water out of
a creek and you take this light bulb
it's like a long wand and you wave it
for a certain amount of time in the
water and that UV light kills all the
bacteria yeah so this company
this product that was going to use that
UV light through the tube and they got
pulled off a Twitter they got their
their account got banned because it
looked like something that was aligning
with what Trump said even though it's
legitimate science and okay it was real
that was real issue so so let's there's
a bunch there and I want to get to the
Twitter stuff because I know about I saw
the when you talk to Bridget over the
weekend about the regulation of social
media and I want to talk about I don't
know the this one so I can't say too
much about it but so so Trump mentioned
in that wondering aloud he said what
have you hit the body with heat or light
and what if you put the disinfectants
that were up on the TV behind him inside
the body so we got like four things
poisons that he mentioned right so UV
light eat and I think isopropyl and
bleach were the four elements so to
speak use his term that were up on the
screen behind him after the fact it was
there there were these couple papers
about this UV technology and a couple
people on Twitter started saying this is
the stuff Trump was referring to and is
like no he wasn't
jump said I don't know anything about
this I'm asking you right is this
something we might look at he was
waiting he was waiting he was completely
winging it so that's the number one
after the fact
that's Monday morning quarterbacking
going through PubMed and saying here's
something I found with the UV light I'm
sure it was what Trump meant when he
said his your body for sure right yeah
so that that's number one
but in terms that this is kind of an
example of like that was a wacky
statement that was an out-of-control
statement that I can't imagine almost
any other politician wondering aloud
about but there is nothing that this
guy's defenders supporters won't defend
like he right it doesn't matter it just
you know that's the scary thing that is
a scary thing and that was that was that
one of the weirdest ones to try to
justify you know I think the correct
response was he was winging it he
obviously didn't know what he was
talking about and he was like asking
questions he was throwing some questions
around they just weren't good
right anyway like say if you or I like I
don't know much about you know internal
combustion engines I don't really
understand them that much I kind of know
these spark plugs and there's fuel
injection but I don't really know what
the fuck's going on if I had to explain
it to somebody like how the gas gets
converted into energy and how the
Pistons go up in something fires and
what's reg I don't I would be doing I
was probably you got to get the gas in
there in the fire and then it's
exploding and you know it would be
similar to the way he was describing
using disinfectants on people but one of
the things that I think he did say was
something about getting light in the
body I think he did say something about
getting a light in the body yeah he did
and said is that something you can look
in yeah stuck he got stuck rambling and
yes kept going and it's probably pretty
safe to assume he enjoys some kind of
stimulant and I don't know what it is I
don't know if it's legal or illegal and
I think you know if he was taking all
that ephedrine that he had in his
remember in that famous picture where
the Taco Bell so someone wrote me and
said that it is true there's this
picture where Trump tweeted he loves
Hispanics I don't know if you guys
remember that tweet that was after he
had said crazy shit about Mexicans
possibly coming over here to rape and
murder exactly exactly and there's a
picture where if there's an open drawer
over his left shoulder and there's a
bunch of sudafed packs in that yeah
exactly
come on I was gonna like get people to
like I would hold on let me open up this
drawer real quick all right now take the
picture like just like just to fuck with
people just as shit like let's let's put
a needle and a baggie and a spoon in
there
just don't say someone wrote to me
though and said that that version of
sudafed which is I guess the UK version
yeah doesn't contain the same stimulant
that the American version has I don't
know the truth but I want to make sure
we're careful about yeah we say I like
talking shit though so let's keep going
oh yeah I wonder if the UK version is
stronger do we even know I mean is that
possible for you to look right now no
Jamie's
thought it was the opposite of that I
thought it was the opposite as well UK
version was stronger yeah interesting
yeah that's what I had heard but I've
done zero research yeah no listen I mean
you you and I have talked about the
tongue thing where it looks like he's
essentially like his tongue is attacking
him it was like his tongue was weekend
at Bernie's he was around his mouth try
to keep talking there's the stuff where
he's like he seems to struggle with s's
where it's like a sound yeah and there
was speculation that it's dentures but
rich guys don't have dentures you know
they and they have dental implants
unless you're super old-school yeah I
guess I don't know and then there's
pictures of him having really dilated
pupils even under t v-- lighting which
is weird cuz TV lighting is really
really bright I don't really buy are
those real pictures that's the problem
I've seen some pictures well I don't
know I guess we can look at them one by
one
well dilated pupils is usually a
response to some sort of drug right some
people get that with MDMA they get that
with certain M feta means you know to be
fair I think that the most sort of like
innocuous explanation would be sometimes
it's like the very high key Trump very
agitated from talking fast and sweating
yes and then sometimes there's this like
depressed Trump where he's talking
really really slowly and he has a
totally different delivery he looks
depressed and sad it's possible that or
either some medication that he's
actually prescribed or just like his
energy cycle during the day I mean we
all to some degree have it maybe there's
times a day where he's up and sometimes
when he's down like it's not necessarily
stimulants I guess mmm
maybe but he's also a guy who's willing
to take hydroxychloroquine yeah look
he's taking it yes I know we I know many
doctors who are taking it and have asked
me if I want it prescribed to me to take
yeah because they're taking it in very
small doses and I said but my friend had
it when he was my friend Michael yo was
hospitalized with kovat 19 and he was in
a terrible place and he said when they
gave him hydroxy Cork when it had a
terrible effect on his bar
so it was devastating and my doctor said
there's a giant difference between the
dosage and the response to the dosage of
a dose that you would get if you are
sick with the disease versus a
preventive dose and he said there's many
many doctors that are taking
preventative doses of this
hydroxychloroquine and that this stuff
has been around for a long time as a
malaria medication of course and dr.
drew did a whole video segment that I
watched recently about that as well
saying basically the same thing I think
that anyone though who's willing to just
start taking hydroxychloroquine I mean
maybe take stuff you know I'm saying
like doctor prescribes you said do you
remember that article I think you and I
had discussed this
there was a journalist that claimed they
found the very say the right pharmacy
that prescribed Trump speed that were
Trump would pick up this stuff that he
would get this amphetamine for a
metabolic condition remember that I
don't remember that okay but if your
doctor prescribes you something look I
have friends that did take adderall and
they take out all the doctor prescribes
them at all and they take it and they
don't think there's anything wrong with
it because the doctor prescribes it they
don't even think that they do drugs I'm
like you're on a hardcore stimulant all
the time and it's really really really
common so if he's a guy that's willing
to take hydroxychloroquine which I mean
maybe it's a good thing to take and he's
around a lot of people and it is
possible that it has some sort of a
preventive effect obviously I don't know
but if you're if you think the guy takes
things you probably take things to go to
bed you take things to wake up I need a
little pick-me-up I need it you know
there's a lot of people out there that
take stuff there's a type of person
who's just into trying stuff and seeing
what it does for them yeah that's me I'm
into stuff medication though like that
like that seems to me like whew like
what about the immune system how much do
you trust your immune so these are
things you could do to boost your immune
system so I have to talk to legitimate
you know clinical researchers and and
and nutritionists and understand the
body's effect and what what nutrients
you're putting in and heat shock
proteins from Shawne on things like all
kinds of different stuff that you can do
you know making sure you get enough
sleep but make it that's a giant factor
all these
factors that we're not getting discussed
in the news when we're hearing all these
things about social distancing and
covering your face and it would be
really nice if the exact same amount of
effort was put to let's all use this
time to make healthy choices and to
understand that there's a real benefit
to having a healthy body and a healthy
immune system and this is the best
example of it we could ever possibly
face is a pandemic worth that worth some
people they brush it off like it's
nothing and I know many people that have
had it like that and then I know other
people that have got it and they got it
really bad I had two friends that were
hospitalized one who was on a respirator
he was there for over a month he's an
older guy but the situation for them was
terrible but there's a bunch of factors
nutrition body being rundown being
exhausted too much travel alcohol
there's there's all these different
things like we need more education about
that like there are preventive measures
that we can take it's not just as simple
as put a bandaid on it cover your face
use hand sanitizer that's that's good
advice too but better advice is both of
those things together yeah so on
hydroxychloroquine I my understanding of
the randomized controlled trials right
now is that it's essentially been tested
as a treatment when someone is already
sick yes and it doesn't seem
particularly effective and there can be
serious side effects there is a study
going on I think in the UK looking at
the low-dose prophylactically I have no
you know I get emails from people who
are like you're against
hydroxychloroquine because trumps for it
I've been talking about
hydroxychloroquine longer than Trump I
talked about it 10 days before Trump
ever mentioned it along with seven other
things that we're looking at I don't
care I want you know what works that's
that's my only priority
yeah the reasons I doubted whether Trump
was really taking it were that he
mentioned he seemed confused about how
long he had been on it and what kind of
dose he was getting like at one point it
wasn't clear whether he was getting the
weekly dose which is how it's taken for
malaria or a small daily dose he seemed
confused and then the letter that his
doctor put out didn't actually say he
was taking it it was one of the weirdest
letters I don't know if you saw it where
there's one paragraph which just says we
talked about this drug and determined
the the potential benefits outweigh the
risks or something like that maybe the
dungeon did that because it's off-label
because it is an off-label drug so if he
is prescribing it to Trump it's not
fda-approved who's gonna get in trouble
it's the president I mean I think that's
why they would write the letter was
weird is the point it didn't it said
everything other than Trump is taking it
which is if it's a letter to prove I'm
taking it you would think it would
mention that
well maybe the doctor hesitated and said
it's controversial maybe Trump asked for
it we're going way out on the
speculation yeah I'm here these are thin
branches maybe maybe he said I want to
take it the doctors like wow that's mean
there's some downsides it's like look
I'm gonna get it either way and so he
gets it from another doctor it could be
that I know a guy don't worry about it
I'll call guys front of it tomorrow ask
for the letter the pen is after he
mentioned it and people said is he
really taking it doctor put out a letter
proving I'm taking it and the doctor
writes a letter doesn't say Trump son
well maybe the doctor was like him and
why the fuck did you say that I don't
know I don't know it's there's a lot of
speculation I don't think you would
outright lie about that because the
reason being is that I do know people
are taking it and I do know doctors and
I've just discussed it with doctors and
I've even been offered it and I just I
think people are willing to if they
really think there's a possibility of
getting ahead of this thing and some
sort of a preventative measure they'll
take it and especially if you're a type
of person who takes things so do you
think that there's gonna be a period
where wealthier folks with connections
will be able to buy a vaccine before
it's available I think that's a
possibility for sure right don't you
think if there's a small quantity that's
always gonna be the case I mean one
thing that people are getting upset at
me in the early days of the pandemic was
that I was testing everybody that came
into the podcast studio like where you
getting these tests well I'm just buying
them I'm paying for them there's a
concierge service in Los Angeles they
come to you and the doctor will
administer these tests you just have to
pay for it and I understand that people
don't have that money that that sucks
but I'm not going to not do it if I can
so this is a similar situation like I
can understand what people be upset
if you had money and someone came up to
you and said David we have this perfect
vaccine it's absolutely been proven
however only one percent of the
population is going to be able to get it
but if you get it and you and your
family can have it and we'll make sure
you're safe would you not take it
because you wanted other people to have
access to it I think a lot of people who
have access to it would probably say
listen I have to do the right thing for
my family I'm gonna try to help people
get it I'm gonna try to spread the word
and hopefully they'll be okay but I have
to take care of myself right now yeah I
I don't disagree with that I don't
disagree with that it's unfortunate
anybody would ever have to choose that
yeah and how it'll go down I guess it's
a question mark like how will you how
will how will people in the know be made
aware that this is now something they'd
potentially be able to buy are you aware
of I mean look how many different does a
bunch of different trials going on right
now where they're trying to figure out
how to make a vaccine but there's so far
no coronavirus vaccine has ever been
successful right there's not one that
they can use as a model is that correct
there is so there are source
there's coronavirus vaccines that have
worked in poultry from my understanding
which can be modified potentially so I
think at least one or two of the vaccine
candidates are modified poetry
coronavirus vaccines
- that could potentially be used in
humans and the other unique thing about
this vaccine potentially as I understand
it is that this would be if I understand
correctly it would be the first vaccine
of its type that instead of having like
a weakened version of the virus instead
it would be a compound that triggers the
body to create certain proteins if I'm
understanding that correctly it would be
innovative in that sense as well yeah
that was explained to me by Alex Jones
all right okay long conversation with
him about it last night where he use its
an mrna varvakis mRNA vaccine it's a but
there's never been one of those that
successfully been used on humans right
this is a new thing well I don't know
that there's been biologists from what
I've read there's not been an
opportunity like this where
the technology would be near enough
where we would try to make that type of
vaccine versus the traditional kind is
my understanding dude that one sounds
scary I'm gonna wait I don't want to be
an early adopter of that one especially
if there's something yeah especially if
this is something that for a giant
percentage of the population is in terms
of the virus itself it's not deadly I
would want to wouldn't you want to know
if there's a new thing that's never been
tried on people before when you want to
know like what the long-term
ramifications have taken that are just
on anything any kind of medication
anything with any I mean I think what is
important to remember is even if three
of the trial is shortened that wouldn't
lead to maybe a question mark as to how
long the immunity lasts but before you
even start testing it to see whether it
generates immunity it's safety tested
and by the time it's available even to
like buy it as a wealthy person I think
that the safety piece of it will be
widely established and it might just be
a question of like does it give you six
months or 12 months of immunity that
doesn't really scare me it seems like
six months is still better than zero
yeah if it works yeah and if it if it is
really safe for sure look if it works
and it's safe we'd all want to take it
really simple right the real question is
if this is a totally new thing and
obviously I'm grossly unqualified to be
talking about this but if it is a new
kind of vaccine like what what are the
possibilities of this going wrong and
what could that mean to people that do
have an adverse reaction to it so I want
to be really careful not to say things
I'm not sure of but also not to allow
false fears about the vaccine to be
perpetuated that this would be the first
widely used MRNA vaccine or a human
virus does not mean that it would be the
beginning of the research into using
these types of vaccines in humans and my
understanding is that it's been decades
that this has been researched and that
it's been under development generally
speaking and now it's being used
specifically for coronavirus so I want
to make sure that I'm not like in any
way implying that I have any broader
concerns about the type of vaccine
because I don't and I'm not saying that
somebody might not present one of those
concerns but I'm not aware of any of
those concern but that's a well well
worded way of describing it yeah I mean
obviously we were all hoping that it
works we're all hoping that everyone's
going to benefit from this and that
we'll have a cure so we can go back to
as normal as possible but you know again
like I said I think we're really more
than anything
we're under under appreciating the value
of the immune system and I think that's
something that is really driving me
crazy about the shortsightedness of this
response is that it's all about
sanitation and avoidance and and all
these different factors and very little
of it is about strengthening the immune
system and keeping the body healthy and
and making a shift of recognizing that
you know hey we're all very vulnerable
here we're all very vulnerable and we
we've had a wonderful goldilocks sort of
time between World War two and now where
things haven't really been nearly as bad
as they've been all throughout human
history and we kind of have to
recalibrate what's possible in terms of
things could go wrong and when things go
wrong and we're grossly unprepared we
find ourselves in the situation that
we're in right now yeah for the I've
seen some really scary numbers about for
the younger serious cases like under
under fifty maybe even under sixty
obesity is extremely prevalent that's
reuse Gary there's some correlation
studies about vitamin D but it there's
really a lot of question marks about
whether it's a causal thing and whether
the infection itself can reduce your
vitamin D like it would be delightful to
learn that if you just if you have low
vitamin D you supplement it and it
protects you you know but there's a
correlation and it's really not clear
what what the deal is with that because
vitamin D is so cheap I mean it's free
from the Sun and it's one of the
cheapest supplements we know that
seventy percent of the United States is
deficient in vitamin C so it's a giant
in C or D D did I say say you said C I
meant D it's it's some enormous number
of people do not have sufficient vitamin
D and as many as I think it's I had dr.
Rhonda Patrick on the podcast a couple
of days ago discuss this it's more than
20% have insufficient vitamin D to the
point where it's dangerous where they
can you know it's fight
apparently is a hormone as well as
vitamin the best way to get it is out in
the Sun but you can supplement it and in
supplementing it it changes so many
things about your body about your body's
ability to recover it's it's for muscle
development it's for a lot of different
there's a lot of different factors of
vitamin D benefits you and and most of
us don't have enough of it it's really
it's kind of a crazy thing
zinc has also been connected to recovery
from kovat and then one of the things
they were speculating about with
hydrochloric win and zinc that you would
use the two of them together and there's
been some speculation that maybe it
wasn't in fact the hydrochloric win that
was really benefiting these people it
was possibly the zinc but in that zinc
in combination with hydrochloric went
was what was helping people yeah I mean
we're just spitballing here right but on
the zinc thing what I saw was it seems
to only be useful for recovery from
viruses and colds if you are deficient
but that if you have a normal level of
zinc that it doesn't really seem to do
that much so the best well it's probably
just like vitamin D the best move is to
keep your body at a good state and so
few of us ever do get your vitamin
levels checked it's really an important
thing and supplementing I I feel very
very strongly about this it's been
dismissed by some people as being not
necessary if you have a balanced diet
the reality is most people don't have a
balanced diet and particularly when it
comes to getting a wide range of
nutrients that we know are beneficial I
mean you really should kind of vary what
you eat to try to get as much of that
stuff in as you can from natural sources
but man especially in times like this
it's just very important to keep your
feet b---twelve high C D zinc all those
things keep your body in a great state
drink a lot of water you know and we're
not hearing again I mean I'm beating a
dead horse but we're just not hearing
enough about this yeah I got a vitamin D
and b12 at home test a month ago because
I was just curious what are my levels I
live in Boston you don't go outside that
much in the winter and it's only
starting to be spring now and they were
both fine but had my D bin low what I
would have supplemented it's so cheap
and and why not you know yeah we're very
fortunate I mean it's real easy to get
some vitamin D and it can you know make
a giant difference in your body
um are you changing anything about your
lifestyle or your your your act
obviously you're stuck at home but are
you changing anything in terms of like
going okay I need to make some
corrections to make myself healthy or
corrections to get better sleep or not
really because I mean I felt pretty good
about what I was doing before obviously
my gyms closed so I'm running outside
and riding my bike and working out at
home he's so weird when you run past
people and you're real close to them
okay so I'm wearing a mask any time I go
anywhere inside like I go to the grocery
store I'm wearing a mask if I have to go
to the post office although I'm trying
to avoid it I wear a mask from what I've
read 90% of the contagion is in four
places home offices public transit and
large gatherings the other 10% is
happening mostly indoors in other
situations the outdoor contagion from
what I'm reading is like almost zero
unless you're doing something really
stupid so I don't feel like if I go
running I need to wear a mask but I do
it to avoid dirty looks to be totally
honest with you it's terrible ink
reading through that while you're
running
terrible gotcha I went out on my bike
and I thought you know I'm outdoors like
is the the nobody's really getting this
outdoors if you're not in a group of
people and I didn't wear my mask and
three bikers coming the opposite way
were swearing at me so I was like all
right just to avoid that situation I
guess I'll wear the mask even when I'm
just walking around I think there's a
lot of unhappy people they're looking to
yell at people and this is their new way
to do it they see you with no mask on
running I don't know why though it
wouldn't be spread through the air
outside I thought that logic doesn't
make sense if it's spread through the
air inside why if you're passing someone
and you're breathing out heavy cuz
you're running it would make it seem to
me that that would be a better way to
you walk right into it if it's in the
air but it's particular matter it's in
the air and you're breathing it out well
this is why I'm wearing the mask but
studies I've seen there were these
really scary looking images where it was
like black where the parts particles
were different colors yeah it's like you
know you could be twenty feet in front
of someone on a bus
and you could sneeze and the wind could
bring the droplets directly back and
they could breathe in at that exact
moment I don't deny it all that it's
physically possible but every single
study that's coming out where it's
possible to sort of figure out like
where are people getting this I'm just
not aware of it being a real risk on a
six-foot wide bike path run past two
people like it's got to be one in 10
million right now I don't think so
now why if you're breathing it out if
you're running right if you if you
breathe yeah you got spit there's stuff
that comes out of your mouth and then
someone's going this way it's just okay
all right I mean listen I'm wearing the
mask
I just am unsure how much of the
contagion is happening out there yeah oh
right now Jamie just pulled this up Joe
Biden asked Amy Klobuchar to undergo
vetting to be running mate Wow breaking
news David Pakman how you feel is that
the only person who's being vetted I
don't know but she's she's she's one of
them Democrat of Minnesota has been
asked by Joe Biden to undergo four
helvetica to be considered a vice
presidential running mate one of several
potential candidates now being
scrutinized by his aides I okay so she's
just been announced as being one of them
senator jeanne Shaheen oh that said
something about jeanne Shaheen there as
well did it mm yeah
jeanne Shaheen Democrat of New Hampshire
was running for reelection this year
declined by an avocation she said no son
senator Maggie Hassan of the New
Hampshire senator has agreed to be
vetted so he's deaf it's interesting
that he's definitely like he wants to
have a woman yep like that's do you
think that's a political ploy or do you
think that it just it makes sense like
why do you think he would do that I
think that the timing of when he made
that call was calculated to be
advantageous I don't remember exactly
what was going on right when he said it
but I think that it was a calculated
move at the time I think it honestly
unless you pick someone who's gonna
actively damage your campaign
I don't think it matters that much you
need someone who's essentially going to
stay out of the way
not cause any kind of new scandal like
Tim Kaine with Hillary Clinton I don't
think he did anything for her one way or
the other like he was just kind of out
of a guy until you just put his name up
I forgot right right and I think that
really what you just want to avoid
someone who's going to cause a problem
like Palin for McCain was a little bit
of a problem it was a problem exactly so
you just might it's it's like you just
want to avoid a problem I think and I
think you know Elizabeth Warren is
probably up there Kamala Harris is
probably up there Amy Klobuchar now we
know for sure it's it's just funny when
you say I'm going to have a specific
kind of person like what was the big
speculation was I'm going to have a
woman of color like then he needs to
have a woman of color I wish I wish he
had like it would be hilarious if
someone said I want a Chinese lady
period mainland Chinese lady that's
gonna be my running mate I'm gonna I'm
gonna like heal this nation and China
together just only Chinese ladies I
don't care how good you are if you're
some white guy you have fuck off like
it's kind of hilarious you know that we
yeah I would want the best person that
he could possibly get especially when
you consider his physical state and
mental states been questioned he doesn't
look that great I would want someone who
I really feel like could make the cut
yeah I don't I'm not big on this type of
identity politics I mean listen last
time I was on we talked about that time
where that this we won't even say her
name but where this woman tried to get
me fired yeah my teaching gig because I
said saying you will not consider a
white or male candidate is that's that's
not okay but I do think that when you
think about all of the people that have
been president so it's like almost all
white men and then Obama who is half
black there would be something pretty
powerful for a lot of young women and
women of all ages to see that okay
there's a woman in this position vice
presidential resident like I don't want
to minimize that but you know I mean you
and I have talked before for me
categorizing people in these ways is not
like my first instinct
yes but it's also we're recognizing that
there is racism and sexism in the world
like with it's not a fake thing it's a
real thing we would love it if there was
none if there was none there would be no
consideration whatsoever towards image
because no one would care no one care
how good would it look to have a woman
in there no one would care if there was
zero sexism and there was and no one
would care if it's a woman of color if
there's zero racism but there is some so
we go whether it'd be a great thing I
get it it would if there was a woman
president like so one of the reasons why
I thought tulsi gabbard would be amazing
if she ran for president became
president and you're talking about a
woman who's a veteran who's served
overseas twice who's been a
congresswoman for six years I mean that
would be that would be great for
everybody like a really qualified woman
who's the president that would be great
for everybody just happens to be a woman
if your kids maybe they have asked you
but if they said how come there's never
been a woman president like how would
you answer that question hmm that's a
good question it would depend on which
kid and yeah I would I would probably
say that our society up until first of
all until the beginning of the 20th
century women weren't even allowed to
vote and so there's a lot of catching up
to do and then women weren't really even
in the business place in terms of
working alongside men in offices and in
in industry when did that start well
there was a big push towards that in the
period during and after World War two so
the trying to stimulate a lot of new
industry and get you know just get more
people working and producing stuff yeah
so what I would say is that men in terms
of public positions of leadership have
had this massive head start and that
we're changing the way we look at what a
leader is and that we we used to look at
a leader as being like the alpha chimp
that uh you know leads us to battle I
mean for you go back in time ten
thousand years ago that's essentially
what a leader was and now we look at a
leader as someone who can navigate the
treacherous waters of the environment
and industry and
unions and all the different things that
the president has to deal with and it's
it's not it doesn't require someone
who's male or female it requires someone
who again I hate to keep bringing up
Tulsi Gabbard but I think she's great
she seems like a leader right that's
what you're looking for you were looking
for someone who's going to make good
decisions someone with good ethics and
good morals it's going to sort of guide
you in a way that the country will be
better off with them doing that job than
it would be without them so that but
again if I was talking to my kids about
it that's it's a complicated discussion
and you would not you would it would be
a long discussion and I think you'd
really have to go back to how different
human beings are now than they were even
in you know I've talked to my kids about
my grandparents my grandparents came
over from Italy during the bibigon early
days of the 20th century and they had a
hard life
and when my grandfather used to talk to
me about living on a farm and coming
over here from Italy and you know how
hard it was a struggle and what their
life was like it's almost unimaginable
to my kids today when I describe it to
them you know and when I tried to
describe what life is like today versus
life was like for them in 1920 100 years
ago it's it's you're talking about a
totally different world and I think that
that's what we're dealing with too when
it comes to the reason why there has
been no woman presidents it's not just
that there's never been a woman
president because society is weird but
it's moving in a better direction it's
just been humans are changing we're
we're changing what we find acceptable
we're changing what we find to make
sense and what doesn't make sense and
we're readjusting things all the time
but I think one of the things that you
said that is an important point was that
if a woman becomes president it does
send a message that this is possible and
it gives people hope and I think in a
lot of ways Barack Obama did that and
when Barack Obama was in office we're
like hey if people even if people are
racist even if there are racist there's
such a small amount that you can get
this guy to win the popular vote and
become the president United States while
he's black this is amazing is amazing
for everybody
shows that a guy who's the son of a
single mom can make it as far as the
highest office in on the planet Earth
elected office the the
commander-in-chief of the greatest army
the world has ever known so there's
there's great value in image and this is
what I think a lot of people are correct
in their their anger about Trump even
people who are Trump supporters they're
the value of the the way a person
conducts themselves in that highest of
high offices it's important for the
morale of all of us you know and when
someone says ridiculous shit or attacks
you know some Reporter and the kind of
the way he kind of goes about it it's so
petty it's so it's so unbecoming of what
we would hope for in terms of like
someone who gets to that spot we want
that person to be better than us we
don't want you to do things that we
would also do we want you to be better
well that's what really scares me about
when I see the people who for 20 years
or however long they've been following
politics talk about what Matt you've
Republicans I'm talking about now what
matters is that you've got a you've got
to be religious and you've got a pray
and you know be god-fearing and you've
got to you know the divorce is bad and
you've got to speak a certain way and
all of these different things it was all
kind of a ruse right like they never
really cared about that stuff it was
just that those were the people that
were being presented to them for a very
long time and then now it's Trump and
he's the opposite of all of it and they
never really cared about that stuff well
he represents them in some ways you know
you just have to make concessions to be
on their side and it's one of the real
problems with having two parties right
it's like if you're not on the other
party you must be in my party yeah if
you're not with those people you must be
with if you're saying Hillary Clinton is
you know she's a problem and you got to
drain the swamp and these career
politicians oh well then you must be
over here you know if you're if you're
against corruption oh well then you must
be on my side because I'm against
corruption too and you know if we had
ten different parties to choose from it
would be way better we would have a way
better understanding of the subtleties
of human characteristics and what we
enjoy what we don't enjoy
we don't believe I think a big part of
what you're saying when you join a team
whether it's the Republicans or the
Democrats you're sort of adopting a
predetermined group of opinions like you
you you know how to fall in line like
you can almost to a person you ask
someone if there are you conservative
yes you can almost guess how they're
gonna feel about the environment or how
they're gonna feel about the climate
change you particularly
freedom of choice that's a big one right
like pro-choice if you ask someone if
they're Republican boy what percentage
you're gonna say that they're pro-life
it's gonna be a high percentage it's
gonna be a high percentage you know what
percentage are going to be in support of
the Second Amendment it's going to be a
very high percentage now if you ask
someone who's on the Left what do you
think about gun control give me a high
percentage that are in favor of gun
control a favor of maybe doing something
different about the Second Amendment but
a high percentage that would you know
there's but that would be pro-choice and
these lines in the sand
you got a wonder how much of these are
just adopted like how many how much of
these are people who have really
analyzed all these issues and come to
this objective conclusion based on
information and based on their own
discussions with other intelligent
people and how many people just adopt
these positions and I think you're
signing on to the package to orthodoxy
in a certain way and one of the crazy
things is I get emails from viewers
particularly in Northern Europe who say
you know one of the craziest things
about American politics when you're in
Europe is compared to the diversity of
parties that they have in many of those
countries the standard Democrat and the
standard Republican are really really
close like what what are they even
really arguing about it's a lot it's a
lot of social issues on economic stuff
it's a you know is it thirty nine point
seven percent top tax rate or thirty six
percent top tax rate I mean of course
there are Democrats who want a much
higher top tax there are Republicans who
want to do a you know do away or really
drop it but in a lot of cases a lot of
this stuff is created as I don't want to
say as theater but it's a creative
people can sign on - yeah for sure and I
think that's one thing that Trump has
done well ingratiating himself with
religious folks because yes it's never
really been his thing and now all of a
sudden you know he kind of goes through
the motions does all the god stuff he
says all the things when you know you
don't believe it for a second right but
Santa Claus what do you if I believe
he's become religion yeah religious
rather one of my favorite interviews was
this one guy who was a preacher he's one
of those televangelist and he was
talking about Trump and someone trying
to bring up Trump's pascal's that was
before he was born again yes that was
before he was born
yeah their their concept is completely
absolved someone that would be nice if
you could just how many times can you be
born again can you fuck up a gang of
times if you just be reborn every time
with a fresh slate they'll be very
beneficial yeah I don't know what the
answer is to that as a concept that's a
great idea
like I was loved if Ike you know like
you're a man feel real haunted by my
mistakes son just raise your hand we're
gonna take those mistakes away you will
you have done him but you're free do you
know you general unmake it is you know
general but making this know and this is
the best example of that you're ever
gonna hear general butt naked was he was
a in the civil war in Liberia and he was
known for getting buck naked taking off
all his clothes and going to war so he'd
go to war and you know he's killed many
many many people and on video on Vice
back when they had the Vice guide to
travel on video he was talking about
what they would do if they captured
children from the opposing army that
they would cut their heart out and eat
pieces of their heart he's talking about
this murdering children and eating their
heart then he found Jesus and they
solved him of everything and now he's a
preacher so general butt naked is now
preacher and he runs around and you know
he's killed who knows how many thousands
of people and eaten kids hearts and
they're like but that was before now
he's a man of Jesus pretty amazing too
great it's a great
clause if you want someone to join up oh
my goodness yeah have you seen the UM
the preachers and the televangelists
selling the coronavirus stuff either
like you send them money and they'll
pray it away or like the silver stuff
and all of these different things yeah
we were watching that one guy was
blowing it was it what's his name again
Kenneth Copeland that same yeah you know
he's the same guy that that lady came up
to him and asked him about flying public
and he was like you know saying that
there's demons on those planes or you
can poor people demon I never said that
and he got crazy with her whoo yeah just
that video alone of him and his Wild
Eyes pointing at her is so goddamn
terrifying whoo yeah it's it's dark all
that stuff's dark it's but again it's
what you talked about where it's lack of
information combined with a desire for
some general better health yeah instead
of going out and exercising and getting
some sunlight it's maybe you know a
silver toothpaste is gonna prevent the
virus or something like that it's crazy
it is credible there's also obviously
these are the same people Jim Baker was
one of them right who was selling
survival slop he was selling these
buckets of survival food that you could
actually use as a the base of your table
like you don't know where to put this
stuff and he had tables where he had
like the table top was sitting on these
survival buckets and selling this shit
and and he's even eating it on the show
I mean very good like it is one of the
televangelists are one of the very
weirdest elements of society where we're
allowing people to just lie like clearly
lie but we feel like the lie is so
obvious that you have to be so dumb to
believe them I can't help you and this
is I made this analogy recently because
I was talking about YouTube censorship
and how YouTube has decided they're
gonna pull down videos from doctors who
have different opinions on how to handle
the coronavirus and criticisms of how
things are and I'm like it's really
interesting that they make that line
that that's the line that doctors
practicing physicians they'll pull their
video down but people talk about the
flat earth they'll leave that up because
it's like it's so dumb it's like ah you
can leave that up that one's that one's
so dumb you have to be a moron to think
the Earth's Hollow and that there's
aliens living inside it traveling around
on laser beams there's videos that say
that they'll leave those up and they'll
leave televangelists up but then it gets
to these doctors that are saying we're
looking at the statistics this is the
deaths this is the deaths in terms of
age groups and this is why it's not
nearly as dangerous as we thought it was
and these quarantine czar not the best
way to handle it we think there's better
way they'll take that video down even if
it's someone who's saying rational
things and I yeah I don't think that's
smart I don't think that's a healthy way
to handle things I don't think it's good
for the debate I think in fact it
strengthens the resolve of the people on
the other side that watch those videos
and some of those points resonate with
those people I think that's not the way
to handle it I don't think removing
those videos is the way to handle it I
think the way to handle it is let other
people with opposing points of view put
their videos up and let people discuss
and debate and see which one makes more
sense to you and usually the weight of
the information overwhelms the bullshit
and at least with most people I don't
understand why it's okay to leave some
obviously full of shit videos up but
take down things that are very very
controversial but debatable okay so this
this now gets into that part of your
episode with Bridget from over the
weekend that I saw where you basically
accurately characterized the the view
that I had last time I was on with you
about the regulation of social media
yeah so first to play devil's advocate
just for a second on why do you leave up
ladder but take down the you know
coronavirus videos that youtuber whoever
disagrees with one can make an argument
that there is no real action someone
would take because they believe the
earth is flat that would endanger others
I mean I guess you might try to go to
the edge and see if you fall off or
something right like but there's no
actionable thing for the most part that
flatter belief does that's a good point
where is if this disinformation about so
like I'll give you one there was a video
I saw about Crone
virus where there was a doctor saying
you know these quarantines are dangerous
because if you're not exposed to
bacteria your immune system will be out
of practice essentially and it's not is
gonna shut down it's not gonna work as
well and then another doctor another
YouTube guy who has a YouTube channel
did a counterpoint where he said he's
talking about the hygienic theory but he
has it backwards it is true that if you
were never exposed to dirt and bacteria
and whatever it will impact your immune
system but it's actually the opposite is
what happens it's that because you're
not regularly exposed to things your
immune system will overreact and it'll
start attacking things that aren't
really a threat okay
so what's the harm I guess right like
there was a video where these doctors
identified what they think is the
problem with the quarantine and then
another job I think it's both things
though I think it's actually been proven
that yeah that does happen where your
immune system over reacts to people that
don't get exposed to enough but I think
there's also it's also been proven that
people that are around a lot of
different people and constantly exposed
to people have stronger immune systems
because of that that it does get
practice and it does get strengthened by
exposure oh yeah I think that's what the
the sort of act check was saying which
is it's completely true that exposing
kids you know to yes the world out there
is good but that what is being asserted
will happen from staying home for two
months is is both wrong and it wouldn't
happen in this money and he was it like
the idea that it weakens he means yeah I
was wondering about that whether or not
it was like a cardiovascular system like
that it only responds to the level of
you know work that it needs to to do
like your your cardiovascular system you
know you've if you run if you take some
time off boy it slacks off really
quickly it would be a real shame if that
was the case of the immune system I
don't think it's but I mean I guess the
point I was trying to make was if you
there are a lot of people who are
understandably frustrated by what's
going on and they're looking for any
excuse to just let it rip so to speak
and go and do whatever and so I think
that play devil's advocate there is a
different level of risk from allowing
some of this
this information to be propagated that
doesn't exist with leaving Flat Earth up
that's a very good point very good
polite but that being said you know we
last time we talked we had this
conversation about like okay if a
platform gets to a certain size does it
not kind of enter some new space yeah
where you need someone to establish some
guidelines get some real quick one of
the problems with this argument though
is that particularly like those doctors
in Bakersfield
they weren't spreading disinformation
they were basically spreading the actual
facts of fatalities and age groups and
and the you know they just had a
different person interpretation well not
even the different interpretation
because they're basically just going
over the statistics but they had a
different viewpoint of how they should
move forward and they were also
discussing things like furloughed
doctors and nurses because hospitals are
no longer doing elective surgeries so
and then many hospitals are on the verge
of bankruptcy which apparently is true
yeah the problem is that's not
disinformation and so if you're saying
that if giving people this information
makes them make poor choices and they
could be putting themselves at risk or
putting loved ones at risk because of
that yes okay I'm with you
yeah I agree but this isn't
disinformation this is factual
information it's just information with a
different perspective other than that
what we're getting which is only one
point of view from the World Health
Organization and people who subscribe to
those ideas so it's not it's not a lie
but I think your point of if someone
believes in the flatter if there's no
harm in that
that's true so if someone believes in
pizza gate and they think that there's
kids being held in a basement somewhere
and they go and shoot up the store then
it is a problem right and they'll that
kind of a video I could understand where
someone would say hey you know that
shouldn't be up there because this is
bullshit and this is this is what gets
caused from that I don't think it's the
same argument when we're all trying to
figure out what's going on with a
medical situation and to practicing
physicians to actual medical doctors are
talking about their perspective on this
virus so no I don't think they're really
on the same line yet so I totally agree
that these are not all equivalent
situations yeah for the purposes of you
know our conversation about like
who what regulation should be in place
right who gets to regulate or this sort
of thing the the point that I had made
last time we talked about this was not
necessarily that I'm in favor or against
having some kind of infrastructure that
says here's how a social network has to
operate YouTube Twitter whatever we
could talk about that and I'm glad to my
argument last time we talked was I don't
know what the legal case is how do you
define legally what it is that is
supposed to happen is it like what would
be the legal framework for that and
there's also a double standard element
of it because there's a lot of really
really loud right-wingers who are saying
the left is being propped up on social
media and the right is being suppressed
to put it very simply right and they're
calling for regulation there against new
regulation on gun safety they're against
business regulation they're against stay
at home or etc it's now they want to
regulate tweets like that's where now
they want regulation that seems
extremely cynical and hypocritical to me
but we don't even necessarily have to
dig into that to think about like okay
if we regulate it how do we regulate it
who gets to decide it I think we're
dealing with a thing that's very similar
to what we talked about earlier the
founding fathers who set up this country
in the 1700s had no idea what 2020 was
gonna be like and I think when you're
talking about freedom of speech
it's like do you still have freedom of
speech if you could just talk and and
you can't tweet well I guess you do
right do you have still have freedom to
get the word out well you do but you
don't have freedom like you or I do what
you could tweet or you can make a
youtube video and who gets to have that
and is that an essential service is that
a thing like the post office or a thing
like the electricity and the utilities
is it an essential and essential thing I
think one could make the argument that
in 2020 it's used by so many people to
convey so much information and it's so
significant that I believe it is an
essential thing and I think that just
banning someone because you don't like
what they say or you don't like how they
say it
I don't think that's the solution No
or do I think there's a clear solution
because I think that if you have someone
who is hateful and is doxxing people and
insulting people and stalking people
online and saying horrible things that's
not good either right there's there's
laws about that in person you can't
harass people in person why can you
harass people online why can you put up
your address and have a bunch of people
send terrible things to your house what
why is that okay well it shouldn't be
okay either we need to figure out what's
okay and what's not okay and I think one
of the problems with isolating a
guerrilla gift tech I think tech people
and people that whether it's Google or
Apple and you've made a really good
argument that they may appear left
socially but they absolutely operate
right when it comes to finance when it
comes to their business and I think that
is true but I think that when you're
dealing with the ability to discuss
things and you might say that your
perspective is the one that you want to
hear because you're a left-wing person
and these are your beliefs but you're
isolating the whole other team from
being a part of that conversation and
maybe they have something you want to
hear and maybe they don't have anything
you want to hear but to not allow them
to communicate you are alienating a
giant chunk of the population and if
someone gets to a prominent level where
they're they're communicating a certain
way and you just decide that that
certain way is unacceptable and you kick
them off
you don't just kick them off you also
silence all the other people that are
along or aligned with them because they
have similar ideas and they don't want
to speak out either when you when you
ban James Woods
you don't just ban James Woods you ban a
lot of other people from saying
something they might be furious about
you know the rush investigation or
whatever they want to express themselves
and they they panic they get scared they
worry that they're gonna get that
censorship that's a form of censorship
and I think these companies I don't
blame them because I don't think they
had any idea what they were going to
become and I think they're all adjusting
along the way I think when Twitter was
first cut when Twitter first came out to
remember that like you would write at
David Pakman is going to the movies you
like you like you know a Joe Rogan just
had a great pizza that's what you did I
mean what
wasn't this thing where you got to
express yourself and 240 whatever
characters and we're in a different
world now and I think this different
world needs some different examination
about what the ability to communicate
online is and this is a an important
point because Alex Jones made some crazy
video after our conversation that I had
with him yesterday
where he was saying that I'm going to
war against censorship in a war against
YouTube that's I'm not doing any of
those things I made this deal okay I
made a deal with Spotify because it's a
great company and it's a great deal and
I'm excited to be in a partnership with
the company as opposed to like a company
that I just put my stuff up on their
platform whether it's Apple or YouTube I
don't like that YouTube censors things I
don't like that they do that like with
those doctors in Bakersfield but I'm not
at war with them I'm not a war with
anybody and I'm not okay I don't I don't
envy them their position I don't think
it's smart to censor practicing doctors
when they have differing opinions I
think we need to find out who's right
and I think the way you find out who's
right is you get people we're experts
and they disagree there's Nobel
laureates out there and I've watched
several videos that are talking about
this lockdown and that it's not a good
idea there's people that believe in herd
mentality vs. immunizations and or
vaccines and I don't know who's right
and I would like them to all be able to
discuss it equally and openly that said
I don't envy Twitter I don't envy
YouTube I don't envy any of these people
the idea of trying to manage this in
real-time while it explodes and takes
over the way human beings communicate
over a period of a decade just like that
that's so instantaneous and mistakes
have been made and in my opinion when it
comes to the way things are censored and
the way it's it's these mistakes
particularly on Twitter
Farah favor the left and there they're
not balanced it like there's some
horrible things that people on the Left
say about people on the right and it's
nothing it just gets washed away but
when the people do it who are on the
right about people on the left they get
banned it's not fair and when things
aren't fair one side has a better
argument that they're being censored and
that there's some sort of conspiracy and
it divides people even more it
strengthens the
instead of company instead of like I
think most people the vast majority 7080
percent are reasonable people so you
could have a conversation with a viewer
in front of them one-on-one when they
don't feel like they're a part of the
conversation or when they speak their
side and their stuff gets deleted or
removed or put into some you know some
shadow band category it's it's fucking
infuriating for people it's not good for
all of us as a community and I think
that is the burden that these places
like YouTube or or or Twitter
they have to shoulder this burden and I
don't know how to do it I don't know I'm
you know
Republicans have one perspective there's
many people like yourself that have the
perspective like listen it's their
company should not they be able to make
their own rules I think they're too big
I think they're too big for that now and
I think that it's it's in this position
where it literally is a part of who we
are as as human beings the ability to
express ideas and communicate is so
critical right now and as we're evolving
and as we're we're evolving our culture
and our civilization discourse is so
important it's it's it's it's a giant
part of being a human being in 2020 and
I don't think it should be just
flippantly removed from people so my
personal view is very similar to yours
in terms of you know sort of like
illegal content and really very specific
things my instinct is leave it up and
let the the sort of let people evaluate
it let people put publish counterpoints
that yeah that's my personal view now
the the conservative view on this is you
know if you if this cake Baker doesn't
want to bake a cake because of who you
want to marry you don't do anything to
the Baker you just go and you know the
market will if there's a demand for
those types of cakes for those types of
weddings Baker's will enter the market
and that's it if you apply that here and
we'll get to the differences in a second
if you apply that here if the James
Woods is want to say stuff and a whole
bunch of people want to hear that stuff
why don't they just go and make their
platform and bring everybody over it
sounds like a great it's business right
yeah it does sound a great business it's
way harder to do way harder to do than
just do it
to say why don't you make another
Twitter well there would be a thousand
Twitter's it's obviously very difficult
no one's ever been able to do it it's
not something that's it's you're talking
about something it takes an enormous
amount of resources it's it's not that
yes it's not that simple it's not that
simple but everybody already does but
everybody already does use Twitter so I
think the question really is does
Twitter have a responsibility for fair
and even treatment you know and I I'm
sure you've seen some of those james
Veritas James O'Keefe or other project
Veritas videos with a secret cameras
filming executives talking about how to
censor conservative people I've seen a
little bit of it what what I do remember
is from the Planned Parenthood era where
what they published was pretty
dramatically dishonest from what I
recall but I've not seen the one you're
referring to specifically that was a
long time ago it was it how long ago was
that
the Planned Parenthood stuff was it five
years I was talking about the acorn
stuff the stuff they brought in a pimp
to try to get money for opening up a
brothel it's been so long that the
details escaped me but I remember that
there I remember that incident I've not
really seen anything recently that
they've done ever you have deceptive
editing you know the problem is even if
in the future you're don't you don't do
that anymore
it's like everyone's always gonna
remember that you did do something yes
you did do something that wasn't
straightforward cut and dry no emotion
journalism just here are the facts
Planned Parenthood awarded two million
dollars in lawsuit over secret videos
interesting that's not good
that was that was that's that's my big
memory when you mentioned that yet that
organization but so I think that let's
say we agree about something needs to be
done once you're at a certain level you
enter a new category and some kind of
regulation has to be done who does the
regulation when you look at
redistricting for example this has been
like a multi-decade thing where when
Republicans are empowered they draw the
districts in a way that's favorable to
them Democrats are in power they take
the opportunity to redraw districts that
are favorable to them you have these
ideas of okay we'll have a commission
with three Democrats and three
Republicans and together they'll figure
out how
the district's could be drawn fairly how
do you apply that at what the lesson
from that how do you apply it to does
the Trump administration decide what
kind of content must be left up versus
what can be removed but then that
administration gets replaced now the
next administration says here's how
Twitter is supposed to operate like how
do you do it it's a really good question
and it's a really hard question
that's why saying I don't I don't envy
those people all right you know I really
liked Jack Dorsey as a person I really
enjoy talking to him I think he's a very
thoughtful guy and in in discussing this
with him both on the show and off the
show you know they they don't really
know exactly how to handle these things
they don't really know what the perfect
solution is and he's even proposed a
Wild West Twitter and then a Twitter
that's under some sort of moderation and
I don't know where they stand on that
right now but that was something that
they were he was actively bringing up
like let's have a Twitter where anything
goes you could yeah like Reddit in the
early day so you could do whatever the
fuck you wanted versus what their what
they have now but here's another example
when when you when a person gets so big
like Trump you can get away you could do
shit on Twitter that there's no way you
could do right like if you've seen the
recent thing where he's accusing joe
scarborough of possibly being a part of
a murder or something like yes i saw
that he's bringing ups I mean apparently
totally I don't know the exact details
of the story but it been investigated
had nothing to do with it it was just
someone he worked with and and Trump is
he's putting out this thing particularly
just to try to target Joe Scarborough
get his fans to go nutty and fuck with
him you know and that's a weird way of
that that's a right-wing guy who is
literally the top right wing guy right
so yeah right wing bias doesn't seem to
apply totally you know negative bias
when it when it comes to the president
and the president when you get to a
certain level like you could just do
shit like that like you could just
threaten North Korea like you could say
we have the best missiles will fuck you
up
like he can tweet that he could tweet
hey
hey buddy I'm glad you faked your death
and I know you're still alive but I just
want to know we got the best missiles
and will fuck you up have he tweeted
that like whoa but this is not really
unique Twitter in the sense that if you
look at our justice system there's sort
of like the justice system or the elites
and then for other people to focus on
street crime instead of white-collar
crime I mean this this exists in a lot
of different places what kind of really
big business get away with versus what
can a small business sure so I don't
think that's different what one of the
things I'm thinking about is what's the
main point of Twitter like Twitter is a
publicly traded corporation so at this
point is it fair to say that the main
point of Twitter is to be profitable and
and deliver a return to shareholders
because if it is all the stuff we're
talking about about how we would like to
see it operate is sort of irrelevant
because they now have this fiduciary
responsibility to just make money right
what do you think Twitter's worth like
like I said like yeah if someone wanted
to come over and buy it what if the
government bought Twitter and just
applied the first amendment to Twitter
well if the government says listen you
guys are kicking ass great job however
you're basically a public utility for
communication of ideas and it's
imperative that for liberty and for the
ability for people to have free speech
everyone has to have access to this and
so when you go to maybe it's like one of
those things you go to jail for a
horrible felony you lose your ability to
vote maybe you go to jail for something
you lose your ability to tweet you know
I mean it could it be 300 billion I have
no idea I wonder how much it is I mean
how much they're spending on these
goddamn stimulus packages I wonder if
they could probably buy it cheap right
now to me I don't think would it really
makes money either yeah I don't think it
makes money you know I think Twitter is
one of those weird situations where it's
worth something but I don't I don't know
if it actually does I don't I don't
think it's in the in the profitable area
right I don't think it's I don't think
it's medium is it didn't you we talked
to Jimmy and I talked about this fairly
recently yeah it's complicated
you know some things make sense like
Google makes sense right these Google
ads they make a shitload of money
YouTube makes sense it's profitable it
all makes sense
Twitter is like where you where's the
money coming from like you it's so
valuable but and it's it's such a useful
too
but how does how do they make money that
means so literally their their ads on
Twitter as well right boosted posts
promote advertisement is that I have no
idea how much money they're making from
that versus what is the value of the
user base wasn't there a point recently
where a very conservative investor
bought a giant chunk of Twitter and was
thinking about kicking out Jack Dorsey
wasn't that something that was brought
up really recently no I don't know about
that
remember that Jamie that was a that was
a situation I don't want but I don't
know if that that's how it went down
like fairly recently someone just bought
a controlling stake or large stake look
man I just think there is there anyone
you would trust to regulate Twitter and
YouTube and Facebook like who would you
who would do it who that's a good
question I don't think it should be one
person either I think it's also like the
president like being president how think
she should be the president of Twitter
its I really think it might be wise for
all of us to consider it like a public
utility you would socialize Twitter yeah
that's incredible I think something that
has that kind of power when it comes to
expression it's a it's valuable for
human beings and I would never want to
take it away from the people that owned
it obviously but I just think as a
concept that we should consider that
what we have here with something like
Twitter or even maybe there's a good
argument for YouTube as well that what
these these new abilities to express
yourself are they're they're incredibly
important in terms of the process of our
culture the process of going over ideas
and evolving those ideas there's no
better way to do that than open
communication there's no better open
communication than Twitter and YouTube
like in terms of regular people you can
start a YouTube video right now on your
phone I can just set the phone up here
press record and start talking and then
upload it and bam my thoughts could be
available to anybody and I think that's
so valuable it's so it's so important in
terms of our ability to go back and
forth with ideas it's and and we're
changing those ideas like obviously the
way we thought about life in 1960 is
very different than the way we think
about life today and a lot of that comes
from discourse a lot of that comes from
discussion and out the evolution of
these ideas jamie has something hold on
think yet I think there was a potential
corporate takeover that tried that maybe
happen but they made an agreement ah
Twitter reaches deal with activists fund
that wanted Jack Dorsey out they made a
deal
they met on fuck Island and they all
know listen I mean I I couldn't agree
more strongly with you about the
importance of these platforms my entire
business is built on them I mean I have
no business if it weren't for what I
think I think the difficulties are what
what are what are the standards that are
applied and I also like I don't want to
sound like one of these free-market
right-wingers but what's the legal bit
you would have to first establish a
legal basis you would have an
established law that says once you have
this number of users or this number of
page views or whatever you now are bound
by this new set of laws and that is
complex to say Louise it's very complex
it's very complex and I don't I don't I
have no idea how would one would even
begin and how long the process of
figuring out what the rules should be
how long it would take before we all
agreed on that but Anna and I think that
would be another great argument for the
ability to express yourself because in
forming these laws we would want to hear
all perspectives perspectives from
people that have been harmed by social
media and you know and Twitter mobs and
shit like that and what should be done
about that and the same thing can be
said about YouTube as well I think but
one thing that no one can deny is how
significant these these tools are
whether it's Twitter or YouTube or you
know any new one that comes out whether
it's tick tock or whatever they're
they're really powerful there's there's
something to them that's unprecedented
in the history of humanity you know and
we can't just apply the old rules to
them just doesn't make sense I don't
think it's good for us what in when I
have talked to conservative people about
this they're I mean if you're not
accustomed to it if you're not
accustomed to feeling like you're
censored and and you're angry you don't
know what it's like until you're around
these people and then you you see their
frustration and their anger and their
fury at Twitter for for doing that
for for censoring voices that are
similar to their perspectives instead of
just letting the process take place like
it's always has been it's just in a
different form the process of being able
to talk through ideas one of the risks
of this is that once you assert a right
to a platform to exist on a platform
that supersedes Twitter or YouTube's
ability to say for whatever reason
because they're a company they can have
Terms and Conditions and they say we
just don't want this if if YouTube was
determined that they don't want
Gardening content on YouTube I can't
think of a legal reason why they can't
say no Gardening content I mean as long
as they're not by virtue of banning
Gardening content you know banning
people on the basis of membership in
some protected class or something like
that right like if you are if all
Gardeners were of a certain race right
you could make the case that by proxy by
banning Gardening content they're
banning people of a certain race I don't
know how you prevent that from then
being applied elsewhere like what other
platforms would people have a right to
and this gets to speakers who say I was
censored because a certain school
wouldn't have me to speak there it's
like well hold on you don't have a right
to speak at any particular school
schools can make decisions about what
they want and what they don't want as
long as you're not being discriminated
against based on your identity is it not
sort of the same thing with YouTube like
what what is the legal basis for saying
they can no longer make these decisions
well it's a big there's a big difference
first of all a school is a single
destination that's a physical place
right so you decide you know this is a
conservative school we don't want people
coming over here and talking about this
or this is a very progressive school we
don't want to have someone from the KKK
come here and tell us how all races are
not equal that that's a very different
thing when you're when you're doing
something like YouTube the real question
is is it just a business is it just a
business it's owned by people and they
have the right to do whatever they want
or is at least I mean well you know
you're on YouTube you're you're called a
partner right they do refer to you as a
partner David Pakman is a YouTube
partner right but you you know and in
some ways you are right because you put
out a lot of
you're huge you put out a lot of content
and that content is an integral part of
like look they have a progressive news
sort of empire really when you really
stop and look about in homemade shows
like yours you know like there's there's
many many of them that you could watch
Kyle kolinsky and jimmy dore and all
these folks are doing these shows
basically from scratch right there's no
large production company behind it or
any of the things that so they've
they've got this whole empire of you're
a part of it you're part of this whole
news empire and there's many categories
but what they are is not as simple as
just a business they are a business but
what they all are as well with you know
all the executives all the people that
YouTube as an entity is one of the most
powerful tools for expression the
world's ever known so if you have this
incredibly powerful tool for expression
at what point in time or when when are
you able to deny people the use of that
thing and why you know and what is
freedom of expression if it doesn't
apply to these new tools what is the
First Amendment if it doesn't apply to
these new tools if someone can come
along and say hey I know you're a doctor
and a practicing physician but I'm 28
and I live in Palo Alto and I say fuck
you because I believe in the WHL and I
don't believe in you and I'm just gonna
delete your video and it seems to me
that I followed the rules that YouTube
is set forth about you know if you don't
agree with the w-h-o and you're giving
some sort of contrary coronavirus
information delete and I don't I don't
think that's wise I don't think that's
wise I think there's a very very
complicated issue that should be debated
publicly and discussed publicly whether
or not these people have the right to be
heard and this is just one example that
we keep bringing up but there's many
different kinds of things that fit along
those lines you know when you just want
to ban all conspiracy theories air
quotes the problem with conspiracy
theories is first of all the word as a
pejorative was created to try to steer
people away from the Kennedy
assassination which is like one of the
greatest conspiracies of all
some some people did that whether it was
Lee Harvey Oswald by himself I highly
doubt it I think there's probably other
people involved I think it was a
conspiracy so call about this I know too
much about it we could spend the rest of
the day discussing that let's not but
when he is First Amendment though I
don't think the First Amendment is in
play here because you're not talking
about the government when you talk about
YouTube well I think we should revise
the First Amendment this is what I'm
saying I think okay freedom of
expression used to be you I can't
infringe upon your right to express
yourself but that was like yelling on a
fucking Apple box you know like what you
did when when that was created the
really what other than writing something
in print are yelling something in a
public square that what there were in a
lot of ways to express yourself now the
most powerful way the world has ever
known
has come along to express yourself and
that's social media that's YouTube and
Twitter and what are those things and
how much of a responsibility
do the people who owned those things
have to adhere to the fundamental ideas
that got us to this republic in the
first place and I think there's a real
good argument that they're more powerful
than simply just a company that they
have this an amazing ability to get
information out and that this is I mean
it should certainly be profitable I
don't deny them their profitability
I mean they've made an amazing thing
they've created something that we all
benefit from they should make a shitload
of money but I think we should really be
careful about who gets to use this and
who doesn't get to use this just because
someone says something that you disagree
with it get other people to also agree
with them doesn't mean they should be
shut down if you don't agree with what
they're saying if you don't like what
they're saying you probably shouldn't
view it or listen to it or read it you
should probably find something else to
or examine why you don't like it and
this is where thinking comes in this is
where critical thinking and discussion
comes in and this is a huge part of
managing a community of managing a
civilization so the one of the biggest
parts of managing this civilization this
kind of discourse is limited and it's
limited and censored and people can
arbitrarily decide to just remove you
from it do you know the zoo bestow
do you know what happened with zoobi I
only vaguely zubi is uh he's an
entertainer a rapper out of the UK great
guy wonderful good ester doesn't even
swear very religious guy he was in a
discussion with someone on Twitter
didn't know if that was a male or a
female or what they prefer to be
mentioned as what their pronouns are but
they said I bet I have sex with more
women than you and he writes ok dude
that's all he writes and he gets
suspended from Twitter for any he asked
them to review it they reviewed it and
upheld it they're like yes this is a
good suspension you can't just say ok
dude to someone that kind of stuff is
crazy
right you know that I'm sure you know
that Megan Murphy story where she she
said she's in an argument with someone
over trans rights versus radical
feminist rights and you know she's what
you call it trans exclusionary radical
feminists and she says a man is never a
woman this is what she said she doesn't
believe that transgender people should
be able to have a say in in traditional
women's issues and so she gets banned
for life for that she she basically said
an opinion on something a man is never a
woman though they asked her to take it
down she took a screen shot of it and
then put the screenshot up she took it
down and she's obviously being
rebellious but should that keep her from
being able to use that platform no no
you should be able to debate that
statement you should be able to refute
that if you want to be angry and her
tell her what you think tell her what's
wrong with it tell its hurtful about it
tell but you banning someone for that it
sends a ripple of self-censorship that
changes the discourse and makes you feel
like you're oppressed makes you feel
like the overlords who watch over the
social media platforms you know they
have the final say in power and it might
not align with my ideas and there's
nothing I can do about it yeah again my
view personally essentially lines up
with yours in terms of my tolerance of
speech I still think that there's a huge
issue and hypocrisy here where you have
large swaths of people that are only in
favor of this type of regulation oh
you're right I leave and it benefits
them based on their biases and they
don't want the regulation when it comes
to like a
said conga rule is yes everything else
there's another hypocrisy which I think
is important when you talk about net
neutrality there's this debate is the
internet so necessary and ubiquitous now
that it should be like the phone and
like electricity you tilt just a
straight up reality yeah if you believe
YouTube which is a piece of the internet
should warrant this degree of additional
regulation how can you not say that the
infrastructure that carries it obviously
should be democratized and treated like
a public utility and yet you have a ton
of people who want to regulate tweets
but they don't think that at this point
the Internet is so important that it
should be a public utility how do you
square that that's a really good
question you know I think there there's
a way to balance it out where everyone
has access to it but if you want really
hardcore high bandwidth access it's very
expensive you pay for it differently
sort of like how in places that have
public healthcare they all they have the
option for a private specialist it's
really good at certain surgeries
something along those lines that you
could you could pay for it as long as
everybody has access to it but you don't
have access to it the way that maybe say
a business would need like a really fat
pipe with a lot of bandwidth it's a good
question though and but but I think your
what you nailed earlier about
discussions for regulation is so
important because it does highlight the
hypocrisy that people have with ideas
that are controversial and one of the
things that they feel when it comes to
whether it's the First Amendment the
Second Amendment whatever it is they
want it this is what's written down it's
in we're not changing it it's that way
forever whether it's the 14th amendment
whatever the fuck it is pick an
amendment they just nope nope nope
written down that's it that's what it is
and you're right that when it comes to
something like social media where there
isn't really a precedence now they want
regulation than what the government to
come in step because it doesn't favor
what their ideas are I I see that
there's some hypocrisy in that but I
also favor regulation so I favor in that
regard or favorite regulation I favor a
regulation in a lot of ways I think this
whole I mean I've had these discussions
with many people they let the market
decide I'm like
that's okay a lot of people get fucked
over when you just let the market decide
that eventually things even out and
sometimes maybe not cliche cliche at
this point because you've been a lot of
times that people say that they don't
really want a free market right they
want a free market until who could have
seen the pandemic coming
let's give cash to all of these n types
of businesses all of a sudden and I'm
not saying I'm against that but I'm
saying let's instead of pretending to be
for one thing until you clearly need a
different one let's recognize these
systems are more fragile than we believe
them to be yes and let's set that up all
along to get something so acute from
going wrong yes yes yes very good point
and I think this is what we talked about
earlier that we hope happens out of this
pandemic is that we have a greater
understanding of some things are out of
our control
and we should be prepared as a community
as a large community we should be
prepared to help each other and I think
that can be done I really do and I think
we could shift in that direction and
that's what I really enjoyed about some
of the concepts that Andrew yang had
about universal basic income like saying
like look we need to take into
consideration that this change is
probably going to hit us and it's going
to hit us hard and we got to be prepared
and you know the way he called it I
believe he'd referred to as a freedom
dividend and so he gave it a different
spin you know this is you this is
something you earned by being a part of
this country like we're going to have to
adjust some of these hardline values
that we have in terms of what people are
responsible for and what people aren't
my argument has always been you can't I
hate that pull yourself up by your
bootstraps shit I hate it it drives me
crazy because not everybody is in the
same situation from the start you don't
come out you don't you know you're not
born into the same family you're not
born in the same community you're not
born the same stresses and troubles and
crime and gangs and this and that and
abuse and sexual abuse and physical
abuse and it's not an even playing field
it's just not so this all this you know
you need to get your shit together like
no we need to help people get their shit
together and we need to figure out how
do we if we looked at the number one
problem and this is again going back to
Bernie Sanders the number one problem
with people that are young that are
coming up is is
having opportunity having health care
having safety having having a place
where you could actually have a fighting
chance to thrive and my perspective is
if you're a person that thinks America
as a team that we are America and I'm
proud to be an American well what's the
best way to strengthen in America less
losers less people that have a shitty
hand of cards from the jump that's what
we should be concentrating on more than
anything you know there's a number that
a corresponding number as in
unemployment rises the there's more
people dying because of heart attacks
suicide depression all these different
factors you can apply that to poverty
you could apply that to despair you
could apply that to growing up in an
environment where it seems like there's
no hope you know you can only ask
someone to hold their breath and swim
for so long before they just want to
give up and that's what you see with a
lot of people in our culture today in
our society in these inner cities that's
not addressed every people one after the
other people run for office and they
don't address those things especially
run for the top office Bernie was the
only one who was he was the only one
who's addressing it so that was why I
was for Bernie Sanders he to me
represented some revolutionary change in
our perception of what what our society
is and what our obligations are as good
citizens
yeah deaths of despair I think is it's a
category that encompasses all all of
that stuff so I did I just reminded of
this because we went back to Bernie so
are you voting Biden or are you voting
Trump or do you know what you're doing I
don't know what I'm doing man I I think
I'm probably gonna vote independent um I
think California is gonna go it's gonna
go Democrat no matter what you know yeah
who knows if he Bryden has some lady
whose badass tells him sit down and shut
the fuck up I got this maybe maybe I'll
be more inclined to vote for him based
on his vice-president choice I don't
know you know I think that like from my
perspective
70% of what you
who seemed to be highlighting with
Bernie maybe sixty four sixty seventy
percent you would get with Biden I'm
very school very suitable
yeah very cynical about that I think so
many of these choices like even just
having a female president they're done
for perceptions and they're done too
he's he's appealing to the people that
want him in power in the first place
those old guard Democrats you know and
the the the business of the Democratic
Party it's a it's a giant business the
whole thing is getting control and you
know there's some social carrots that
are dangling out there at the end of the
stick that we would like to think that
you know having someone in there that's
going to vote left
in terms of Supreme Court justices and
things along those lines would help us
all tremendously but I don't know I'm
cynical the way the way this whole
Bernie Sanders thing went down I'm
cynical about that how they all dropped
out right before Super Tuesday and it
was Bernie versus Biden and you know
there's there's so much of it that I
felt like there's so much coordinated
shit that he had to endure from the DNC
in 2016 that he's enduring he was
enduring similar shit running into the
2020 election I don't know I don't have
a lot of faith in the same standard
institutions changing things for the
better I just I just don't have a lot of
faith I think I mean I guess yeah I
don't know I'm thinking like I don't
have kids but if thinking if I did all
the frustrations with the DNC the
coordinated dropouts all of that stuff
it's just for me so simple we're like if
Trump gets to pick the next Supreme
Court justice that could affect your
kids kids in horrible ways whereas if
Biden gets to pick the next Supreme
Court judge like that alone and you know
these other 250 judges that Trump
selected that we don't really hear about
but that make way more decisions like
climate aside I think Biden you would
agree with more on tax policy I think
you'd be more with you know all these
different issues like just the judges
part would impact society for 20 30
years and that just seems so huge it
would be huge yeah I mean and we should
probably consider whether or not that
makes sense whether or not Supreme Court
justices should be lifetime of
does that make sense it should it be so
significant that you're willing to
ignore everything else just because you
want someone in the Supreme Court that
aligns with your politics because
they're not going to be there for a
couple of years they're gonna be there
until essentially the either retire or
die that's it's a weird thing to have it
so a weird amount of it's almost like
there's something that happens to
professors when they get tenure where
they they can kind of get away with
wacky shit and do whatever they want it
gets real weird and I think that
whenever you get people in a position
where they don't ever have to worry
about getting fired I mean obviously a
scandal they murder somebody or
something but they're they're an
appointed for life you know I think and
they have immense power it's just it I
don't know I'm not obviously I'm not a
law student or a lawyer but is that
really the best way to do it it doesn't
yeah I mean I I tend to favor term
limits for Supreme Court justices the
counterpoint which is not a crazy
counterpoint is if they know that
eventually on the tail end of this thing
they've got to go and get a job it could
influence their rulings and cases right
if you you will very often see cases
where it could be dealing with an
industry that would be the likely
industry you would work at after you
leave the Supreme Court you know that
would be something you would want to
eliminate but but I see both sides of it
I see both sides of it too it seems to
me like also look to have a president
that gets to choose the Supreme Court
judges it's like all the other shit he
has to do to that that should be the
only job he does if he was just gonna
pick Supreme Court judges
he shouldn't Maul over that for years he
should have stacks of paperwork in his
office going over he should first of all
you should be a lawyer like Obama would
be uniquely qualified for that gig you
know Hillary would be uniquely caught
you should be a fucking lawyer that
understands what you're actually going
to vote on and what you're actually what
what the implications of giving this
person this gig is going to be and also
wouldn't it be logical if we're just
assuming that there's a is a probably
terrible idea because would result in
like big stalemates but wouldn't it be
great if we're a suit we're admitting
that there's only two parties we kind of
are there's a third that's independent
and
and all that but really there's really
there's two parties right it's
conservative and liberal wouldn't be
great if there was half-and-half five of
each or four of each or you know pick a
number if you're gonna have a Supreme
Court wouldn't it be great if it was
equally representative of well by
definition that cannot happen because in
order to avoid stalemates you got to
have an odd number right yeah but maybe
just one that one is what happens the
president gets to pick that one so if
you're a Republican you get one you have
like one that tips it towards your side
one but I mean it's terrible idea I'm a
moron and don't listen to me but
wouldn't it make more sense to have
equal representation of both sides when
it comes to complex issues that's going
to affect the entire country it
shouldn't just be a simple a simple
matter of this one guy's the president
he gets to just a point all these
right-wing Jesus bangers and they come
in and burn all abortion clinics like
that that shouldn't be that simple now
that's interesting because so you're
pro-choice do you really want it to be
mandated that half the court is against
abortion like why would that be good
again whenever it comes to abortion is
it's the what there's one thing that you
keep bringing up and that you keep
bringing up pro-choice you keep bringing
it up it's I brought it up because you
mentioned divorce right right right but
you brought it up earlier too yes yes
it's it's one of those when it comes to
picking a Supreme Court that's like the
number one thing should yeah I mean I
hate to say this way should you be able
to abort a baby and it's it's what it is
right or a fetus or you know the bundle
of tissue before it's ever really
anything what should you be able to do
that and that it's so crazy that that is
like one of our number one
considerations should someone be able to
infringe on your rights as a human being
to tell you have to carry this baby and
then you have to either put it up for
adoption or raise it like like what do
you uniquely human conundrum that is and
that conversation that is because as we
discussed earlier it does get everybody
gets very disturbed when it gets older
when you're dealing with five and six
months everybody has a problem with
almost everybody but when it's early on
it's less and less it's one of those
uniquely human things where we're all
just like well that's a messy discussion
it's a messy problem it's not unique to
abortion though I mean if you think
about think about a speed limit right I
mean you you got engineers and they say
the speed limit here is gonna be 35 does
that mean when it's dry 40 is unsafe no
does that mean if it's icy 35 is safe
you've probably got the fact that there
is an arbitrary nature to it often gets
you into a philosophical black hole
where people end up saying you just
can't have it because it's not clear in
the way we would like it to be clear and
I think we don't want to fall into that
kind of philosophical black hole because
it's not unique to abortion that that
exists yeah you could make good argument
about being something you could apply to
a lot of different things but abortion
is so emotional because the when you
talk to the pro-life people and they're
you know screaming that you're killing a
baby like there's nothing else like that
that sort of has the consequences of you
know on one side people looking at a
woman's right to choose and then the
other side looks at it you're killing a
baby like whoa that is a really
polarizing and complex issue but I agree
with you about the speed limit thing and
the other problem with the speed limit
thing is you turning cops into glorified
revenue collectors because they're out
running around giving people tickets and
collecting money for going too fast like
that's not what they're supposed to be
there for there for sure if someone's
driving unsafe they should do that but
they shouldn't be waiting to catch
people going three miles an hour over
the 45 limit and also like what kind of
a car do you have because if you have a
you know a 1965 Buick and it doesn't
stop at all like you hit the brakes and
it's skids for like 15 feet before it
even starts to break your car is
dangerous
your car's dangerous probably even going
35 miles an hour if you had a old tank
of a car with shitty brakes and you know
those cars are they're not designed to
go fast like in comparison to today's
cars at all like maybe you shouldn't
even be allowed to drive those
when you see someone with like one of
them classic cars like Jay Leno drives
all around Burbank like you can those
brakes barely work on that fucking piece
of shit
but if you have a Tesla like my god man
those things are super fast they're
super comfortable and safe the brakes
are amazing like there's modern cars
today that you can make the argument to
55 miles an hour is preposterous like I
know all around Massachusetts I used to
live there the speed limit was crazy 55
miles an hour is bad Ihnen you just want
to eat your steering wheel
you're like this is gonna take so long
when was that I don't even remember when
the speed limit was 55 hey gar bro I
can't drive 55 don't you remember
do you remember maybe yeah maybe I'm 65
I remember 60 how old you David 36
yeah I'm ancient I'm 52 and when I was a
kid Sammy Hagar before he was even in
Van Halen hear this song I can't drive
55 oh yeah yeah no I know just something
I just thought I don't know when it was
that slow in Massachusetts oh man well
when I lived in there I moved out of
Massachusetts in probably 92 91 92 and
it was still 55 then when I used to
drive to Connecticut for gigs you'd get
busted all the time these fucking guys
be hiding behind bushes with radar we'd
have radar detectors you hang from your
steering wheel you know or your your
rear view mirror remember those things
yeah I used to have one didn't work at
all but yeah but yeah there's there's I
mean you know Montana had no speed
limits Montana was like fuck you until
the federal government said listen you
know you gotta if you want money from us
you got to do something you got to have
speed limits so they came up with some
wacky like 85 mile an hour speed limit
up there but that's uh also you know
it's it's a place where there's just not
that many folks it's big wide-open
stretches of land it's not like driving
85 miles an hour through downtown Boston
no are you are you like out and about a
lot right now with what's going on with
the virus I mean not really I went to
Florida for the UFC that was really
weird
that was last weekend or the weekend
before last that was very strange you
know wearing a mask everywhere and
everybody else has a mask on but once we
got to the actual event it was just
strange because there's no audience with
the fight had no crowd
and then I came back home and most of it
mostly I've been just come in here to
the studio and going home
I haven't I've actually you know aside
from being freaked out and all the
anxiety and being sad that people are
suffering and I myself have enjoyed the
time off and enjoyed the the the the the
ability to reflect and to just think
about like what is important in life and
what what is important in terms of how I
spend my time and how critical health is
that it's not just a luxury or a vanity
that health and exercise it's it's
imperative and I may not beat people
over the head with that maybe too much
but I think it's so goddamn important
and that to me that's really been
hammered home to me about this pandemic
love friendship how important my
friendships are how I value them so much
my obligation in doing this thing you
know and this thing it's like I want I
want to express a beneficial idea I want
to express ideas in a way that maybe
people could get something out of it I
want I want to I want I want it to be in
entertaining I want but I want people to
get something out of it you know and I
think that that's all been highlighted
and what a unique position I'm in and
how fortunate I am and what what
obligation comes with that fortune you
know that's all been really highlighted
by this this pandemic yeah I just feel
so lucky that my job doesn't depend on
me driving somewhere on some boss
whatever the community that you know
people are home watching stuff and and
for that reason you know stuff shows
like these are particularly important
right now but also I that responsibility
thing about I really need to make sure
I'm informing people about what's
actually going on I don't want to be
spreading disinformation the feeling of
that responsibility as I've always had
it but it feels particularly acute right
now because of what's going on yeah and
it should and you know David it's
interesting we were talking about this
earlier but your show couldn't exist in
any other time and nor could mine and
we're very very very similar in that way
if you had someone standing over you
you what to do or hey David here's the
data we've got from the polls they don't
like it when you talk about this or they
say not to talk about that and the
sponsor wants you to change the way
you're dressed and that kind of shit you
would never become you and I think one
of the reasons why shows like yours
resonate with people is because it's
very obvious that no one is telling you
what to do you're just a guy who has
your perspectives and you're a brilliant
guy you have very interesting thoughts
on things but these are home-brewed
thoughts like you've thought about these
these are these are not things that are
being handed to you on a printed sheet
by the network executives and that's
what makes what you do and what I do so
interesting is that it resonates if
people can clearly see I'm a moron so if
this moron is be able to talk to all
these people and have these intense
conversations like there's not really a
barrier of entry that we once thought it
was you know to be a person who has that
kind of an audience you used to have to
be vetted and used to go to a long
process there was a lot of other people
in consideration you had to play games
and politicking and you know you had to
be chosen you're not to be chosen
anymore you just have to do it and get
better at it and I feel so fortunate to
be in the situation that I'm in where
this is happening and the to to have
this ability to just do a show to not
have to talk to anybody do be able to
just just go and have conversations with
whoever I want whether it's you or
whoever anyone yeah I think it's yeah my
hope is like when we look back at this
whenever it's it's done you know that I
can just feel good about the work that
happened during this time right because
it I think it's gonna be a phase where
we'll kind of remember the beginning
middle and end of it and I don't know
when the end of it is going to be but I
don't want to feel like the time was
squandered in any way no I don't think
it is man I think perspective wise I
think we're all going to benefit from
this the really the real problem is
people with businesses the real problem
is people that didn't do anything wrong
and everything's taken away from them
and I feel fucking terrible for them and
if there's any way we could save them
and do something I mean I just don't
know what the answers are I don't know
the answer
are medically I don't know what the
answers are I mean in terms of managing
our economy from here out I don't but
man it's it's a fucking weird time it's
one of the weirdest times like sometimes
I'll just be driving down the street and
I'll have forgotten that we're in the
middle of a pandemic and I'll see some
person with a mask on like oh yeah oh
yeah the world's fucking haywire right
now I forgot we're all afraid to touch
each other and everyone's far apart and
you get hand sanitizer your squirt and
every five minutes on yourself it's it's
just the weirdest time of my life
yeah my bit my biggest concern is that
all the stuff that we figured out we
weren't ready for we learned nothing
from it and then just the next one of
these happens and we're just as
unprepared and things go just as haywire
that would be like the biggest waste and
I fear that that is a good possibility
that's a big fear and it's also like how
what went in terms of money to allocate
what's left like after the stimulus
packages after all this stuff that we're
doing what is gonna be left how much
money is there going to be to try to
restart everything do they have enough
money to really put together another
pandemic response team and do a better
job with it to really fund research on
the flu and various viruses and to find
out what's going I know there's there's
talk about these things about picking up
these programs and really stepping up
their absent six trillion already
prevention is so much cheaper than
emergencies you know prevent it's just
it's a fraction of the cost
obviously pandemic response team never
should have been disbanded it would cost
pennies on the dollar to what is being
spent right now no doubt it's crazy when
you go back and listen to Bill Gates TED
talk in 2015 talking about the
possibility of a pandemic and wiping
everybody out and then five years later
you see it happen and you're like nobody
listened nobody looks how crazy is it
that people are now Bill Gates is the
bad guy I've got people I went to high
school I have people I went to high
school with hosting insane conspiracies
about Bill Gates is the problem now how
did that happen little help me there
help me there with that one because that
one's weird I was watching this video
from Newport Beach
or Huntington Beach weather all these
people are protesting free California
and they're running around and this
guy's got a megaphone he's like Bill
Gates is the devil like how did that
happen it's one of the weirdest memes
it's weird it's one of the weirdest like
cultural memes like this that this thing
has happened that Bill Gates this this
philanthropic billionaire who's
literally like make toilets in Africa
and spent millions of dollars to try to
get people education and millions of
dollars on all sorts of great social
good all the sudden he's a bad guy it's
inconceivable and here the number of
people I've just muted or unfriended
that I personally know I mean it's like
it's not just random people on Twitter
but it's people I went to high school
with who say he wants to profit from the
vaccine or he wants to use a vaccine to
control the population or I mean it's
like you know there's no tech yeah
weaponized disinformation is what I call
it well it's it's very prevalent it's
really interesting to bits because like
what here's the problem there is profit
in vaccines that's a problem so like
when you look when someone looks for a
conspiracy and they say something like
Bill Gates he just wants a profit on the
vaccine you can't say no one ever
profits on vaccines so that's a stupid
idea you go well how much is a vaccine
worth and how much profit is there in
vaccines then you look in you go wow
there's a lot of profit of vaccines shit
I wish there was none I wish you know
they're making them just for the greater
good of mankind and it's not like people
are buying private jets and Ferraris off
that money but look everything where
people do it and do it well
seems to require incentive you know and
it's peak of the system right that's
because it's not just vaccine but it's
funny to me that people don't have a
problem with that with capitalism but
the same people that would vote right
and don't have a problem with capitalism
maybe be anti regulation or angry that
people make money off of vaccines but
yes they're also angry because we're
cynical and we wonder ok if they're
making money off vaccines would it be
possible for them to incentivize doctors
to vaccinate people more or if they got
more pee
involved they would make more money like
that is a problem in just human nature
when you can use more behind it you okay
give me the reality the not vaccinating
and having way more people to treat or
stuff is way more profitable that's a
good point
and it's also devastating to
civilization right I mean if they never
came up with a fucking polio vaccine how
many people would be just a mess because
of that and die because of that smallpox
you've seen those images of I mean I
probably never saw them until the
Internet of the images of what people
look like when they were devastated by
smallpox it's horrifying
vaccines are important my my cynical
nature comes up whenever there's
anything where people can make a lot of
money it's not just vaccines it's like
anything whether it's fracking when I
hear people talk about how safe fracking
is and then I remember Gasland the
documentary where they're light and
water on fire Mike what tap water's not
supposed to be flammable I mean this
place is in Pennsylvania where people
can't live they have to get out of their
fucking house they can't live they can't
wash themselves the water they can't
drink it they can't they're they're
worried about breathing in the fumes
near their houses I mean it's it's
devastating
it's a tragedy a tragedy and that's
that's an it that's a clear area where
profit and not enough regulation are the
recipe for disaster and oddly enough an
area where the right-wing tends to
poopoo it oh come on
fracking has made this country a oil
stronghold you know there's that that
argument which I guess it kind of has
right I mean that's again a problem with
humans
we're so life is so complicated human
being a human is so fucking complicated
there's so much to us how long you think
this will go I don't know I'm worried
about a second wave the second wave
concerns me and I'm worried that that
could lead to shutdowns that people are
not gonna be able to make it through
that made it through this one where they
barely made it through this one with
their business and then the second lock
knock lockdown comes and you know and
they lose everything I'm also worried
that people are going to lose their
health and their life I mean I'm worried
about both things I'm worried about the
second
wave coming and people being ignorant to
the possibility of it hitting and then
it does hit and it's devastating both
those things are terrible you know but
again my my thinking is if we're going
to quarantine people we really should
make more of an effort to quarantine
people were sick and old that seems to
me to be a better way of handling it
from here forward than quarantine all of
us I think I don't think that's tenable
I think maybe we could pull that off for
a month or so but I think after a while
the fucking wheels fall off and I feel
like that's where we are right now so I
think as I said before much more
emphasis on health in your immune system
and taking care of your body and being
smart those things are those things are
underappreciated and critical yeah III
think the best scenario is a widespread
vaccine by March April 21 right I mean
it seems like but would you jump right
in with one of those mRNA vaccines well
by the time I unless I go out and buy
one by the time I get it millions of
people will have had it already like I
mean it just you know it's gonna be
health care workers first and then the
most vulnerable part by the time there's
one available for me unless I just
figure out who I can buy it from
millions of people will have had it
already at this point in the movie the
screen would go black and we'd open to
David Pakman covered in dirt kavik
carrying a club filled with spikes
running down the street with his friend
trying to avoid the zombies by the time
it got to you they'd already turned to
zombies and you couldn't afford it and
you lucky you now there's millions of
zombies running through the streets of
Boston trying to eat people we don't
have to go into this but I am like doing
some prepping now and I oh no I know
what I'm doing
what are you doing i I just I looked up
like what are the eighty you know the
80/20 idea right look so like I just
tried to figure out what's the what's
the the stuff that will cover 80% of the
scenario so it's like three days of
water I don't need a month of water
right some additional first-aid supplies
but then I got into really weird stuff
where I got convinced that I need a flat
tire repair kit and so I bought this
thing and then I looked at it and I was
like wait a second I still need to
humph up the wheel at the tire after I
use this thing and then I realize like
I've got triple-a and a flat why did I
buy a flat or a spare why did I buy a
flat tire repair kit so like some of the
stuff I bought made no sense that is
actually wrong and that makes plenty of
sense first of all you can get one that
plugs in your cigarette lighter that's
an air compressor very easy right I got
one of those it's awesome
so that that's your covered there second
of all triple-a if a lot of shit goes
down they're gonna be busy man and they
might not be answering their phone and
you might be stuck in the middle of
nowhere no tire repair kit is good okay
knowing how to feed yourself that's good
like having rice and beans things that
are easy to store and it lasts forever
that's really good all that stuff is
very important but I got real super
prepper II at the beginning of this I
was real worried the first couple of
weeks I was scared out of my fucking
mind I was like this could just be you
know 10% of us are dead people just
dropping dead in the street left and
right I was really worried about it
because you know you hear the stories
the salacious crazy horrible stories are
the ones that get the most press whether
it's any whatever subject the subject is
and of course when it comes to a
pandemic the ones that people want to
hear about is there's a 28 year old guy
you know he was a fitness instructor now
he's in a coma holy shit those ones that
really scare the fuck out of you though
those were what you kept hearing so you
know I'd wake up in the middle of the
night thinking is my breath feel short
and you know and if and then also the
anxiety kind of was keeping me from
sleeping well so then I look I have a
whoop strap that it measures my sleep
and I checked the app and I would look
at my recovery there was like 13% I was
like what the fuck because I'm freaking
out because I'm up all night worrying
about whether or not society's gonna
fall apart and everyone's gonna die so
it took a while for me to relax I guess
like probably a couple weeks before I
was getting like real consistent sleep
and and feeling much better but I'm
still very very worried about what what
it's gonna be like once things restart
yeah yeah I totally agree with you I I
thought four different times I had
coronavirus first of all so that that
whole thing went on but there's some
stuff that is going to take a while to
get back to you just like human
interaction type things right I mean I
don't think we there's not gonna be a
day where we say we're back to hugging
and handshaking and and sharing drinks
and and that type of stuff like some of
the stuff will persevere for a long time
maybe yeah maybe I don't know when I was
at the UFC I was shaking a lot of
people's hands and hugging people but
they were all adjusted the everyone was
tested so everyone had to walk around
the bracelet on that showed that they
had been tested and tested that week and
so everyone was cleared right before we
got there so I was pretty sure everyone
was fine it just seemed so normal all
the friends that I've been working with
for years so I was shaking their hands
and hugging them and and some people
were critical of that they're like you
got to stay away in social distance and
all this and I was like when everyone's
clear look if it's if we're we're all
tested and everyone's testing negative
like why can't we act like normal again
is it magic
somebody could be incubating it right
we're you know imagine if three of those
people tested negative because they're
they're incubating it they got it on the
flight there or something like that I
mean the horror movie I think they they
didn't get on the flight there because
everyone's tested once they arrived but
either way yeah I know I mean like you
could it could get be in your system
from the flight you get a test two hours
later but the test is negative but if
you just wait 24 more hours then that
test would be positive all right dr.
Pakman you got I don't know either man
but I hope we go back to normal I think
people need touch and we need hug yeah
and it weirds me out already when I see
how scared people are of each other
walking down the same sidewalk and
people cross the street so they don't go
near you they give you a weird feeling
it's not it's not optimal dystopian yeah
listen David we just did three hours if
you could believe it or not incredible I
appreciate you man you're a very
intelligent guy I really enjoy your show
I like watching your clips I love your
well-thought-out perspective and I think
you're very valuable especially in this
crazy time we're living in I so
appreciate it three hours went by in an
instant and really just really
appreciate talking to you again having
having me back next time what's doing a
person I'm gonna hug you
we're gonna
each other we're gonna do we're gonna
get over our fears I hope so I think we
will all right brother will you take
care yourself man
thank you can take care bye bye
everybody
[Music]